using-timescaledb/backup.md, before:

# Backup & Restore [](backup)

Backing up TimescaleDB takes advantage of the reliable functionality already
available through PostgreSQL.  There are several ways to accomplish this:
physical backups with `pg_basebackup` or another tool, or logical backups with
`pg_dump` and `pg_restore`. Physical backups may also be used with Write-Ahead Log
(WAL) archiving to achieve an ongoing backup.

## Performing Physical Backups [](physical-backups)

For full instance physical backups (which are especially useful for starting up
new [replicas][replication-tutorial]), [`pg_basebackup`][postgres-pg_basebackup]
works with all TimescaleDB installations. You can also use any of several
external backup and restore managers such as [`pg_backrest`][pg-backrest],
[`barman`][pg-barman], or [`wal-e`][wale official]. These allow you to take
online, hot physical backups of your entire instance, and many offer incremental
backups and other automation options.



## Using `pg_dump` and `pg_restore` [](pg_dump-pg_restore)

In this section, we cover how to backup and restore an entire
database or individual hypertables using the native PostgreSQL
[`pg_dump`][pg_dump] and [`pg_restore`][pg_restore] commands.

>:TIP: Upgrades between different versions of TimescaleDB can be done in place;
 you don't need to backup/restore your data.
 Follow these [updating instructions][].

<!-- -->

### Entire database

To backup a database named _tutorial_, run from the command line:

```bash
pg_dump -Fc -f tutorial.bak tutorial
```

Restoring data from a backup currently requires some additional procedures,
which need to be run from `psql`:
```sql
CREATE DATABASE tutorial;
\c tutorial --connect to the db where we'll perform the restore
CREATE EXTENSION timescaledb;
SELECT timescaledb_pre_restore();

-- execute the restore (or from a shell)
\! pg_restore -Fc -d tutorial tutorial.bak


SELECT timescaledb_post_restore();
```

>:WARNING: PostgreSQL's `pg_dump` does not currently specify the *version* of
 the extension in its backup, which leads to problems if you are
 restoring into a database instance with a more recent extension
 version installed.  (In particular, the backup could be for some
 version 1.1, but then the `CREATE EXTENSION timescaledb` command just
 installs the latest (say, 1.3), and thus does not have the
 opportunity to run our upgrade scripts.)  We are looking into
 submitting a fix for `pg_dump`.
>
>The workaround is that when restoring from a backup, you need to
 restore to a PostgreSQL instance with the same extension version
 installed, and *then* upgrade the version.

>:WARNING: When restoring from versions before 1.3, you must follow
  the instructions for restoring from earlier versions. You can select
  docs for previous versions of the database in the sidebar.


<!-- -->
>:WARNING: These instructions do not work if you use flags to selectively
 choose tables (`-t`) or schemas (`--schema`), and so cannot be used
 to backup only an individual hypertable.  In particular, even if you
 explicitly specify both the hypertable and all of its constituent
 chunks, this dump would still lack necessary information that
 TimescaleDB stores in the database catalog about the relation between
 these tables.
>
>You can, however, explicitly *exclude* tables from this whole
 database backup (`-T`), as well as continue to selectively backup
 plain tables (i.e., non-hypertable) as well.


### Individual hypertables

Below is the procedure for performing a backup and restore of hypertable `conditions`.

#### Backup

Backup the hypertable schema:
```bash
pg_dump -s -d old_db --table conditions -N _timescaledb_internal | \
  grep -v _timescaledb_internal > schema.sql
```

Backup the hypertable data to a CSV file.
```bash
psql -d old_db \
-c "\COPY (SELECT * FROM conditions) TO data.csv DELIMITER ',' CSV"
```

#### Restore
Restore the schema:
```bash
psql -d new_db < schema.sql
```

Recreate the hypertables:
```bash
psql -d new_db -c "SELECT create_hypertable('conditions', 'time')"
```

>:TIP: The parameters to `create_hypertable` do not need to be
the same as in the old db, so this is a good way to re-organize
your hypertables (e.g., change partitioning key, number of
partitions, chunk interval sizes, etc.).

Restore the data:
```bash
psql -d new_db -c "\COPY conditions FROM data.csv CSV"
```

>:TIP: The standard `COPY` command in PostgreSQL is single threaded.
 So to speed up importing larger amounts of data, we recommend using
 our [parallel importer][] instead.

## Continuous archiving and recovery with Docker & WAL-E [](docker-wale)

When using TimescaleDB in a containerized environment, it is possible
to do [continuous archiving][pg archiving] using a [WAL-E][wale
official] "sidecar" container (i.e., a container that runs alongside
the main container). For this purpose, we provide a [WAL-E sidecar
image][wale image] that works with TimescaleDB as well as regular
PostgreSQL. In the following example, we will setup archiving to the
local filesystem using one main TimescaleDB container called
`timescaledb`, and one WAL-E sidecar called `wale`. For production
deployments, this example can be adapted to do archiving against,
e.g., AWS S3, and run in an orchestration framework like Kubernetes.

### Running the TimescaleDB container

To make TimescaleDB use the WAL-E sidecar for archiving, the two
containers need to share a network. Create a Docker network like so:

```bash
docker network create timescaledb-net
```

Then launch TimescaleDB with archiving turned on, using the newly
created network:

```bash
docker run​ \
    --name timescaledb \
    --network timescaledb-net \
    -e POSTGRES_PASSWORD=insecure \
    -e POSTGRES_INITDB_WALDIR=/var/lib/postgresql/data/pg_wal \
    -e PGDATA=/var/lib/postgresql/data/pg_data \
    timescale/timescaledb:latest-pg10 postgres \
    -cwal_level=archive \
    -carchive_mode=on \
    -carchive_command="/usr/bin/wget wale/wal-push/%f -O -" \
    -carchive_timeout=600 \
    -ccheckpoint_timeout=700 \
    -cmax_wal_senders=1
```

We explicitly set the location of the write-ahead log
(`POSTGRES_INITDB_WALDIR`) and data directory (`PGDATA`) so that we
can share these with the WAL-E sidecar. Both must reside in a Docker
volume (a volume is created for `/var/lib/postgresql/data` by
default).

It is now possible to log into the database and create tables and
data:

```bash
docker exec -it timescaledb psql -U postgres
```

### Running the WAL-E sidecar

Our [WAL-E Docker image][wale image] runs a small Web endpoint that
accepts WAL-E commands via a HTTP API. This allows PostgreSQL to
communicate with the WAL-E sidecar over the internal network to
trigger archiving. It is, of course, also possible to use the
container to invoke WAL-E directly. The Docker image accepts the
standard WAL-E environment variables to configure the archiving
backend (e.g., AWS S3) and more. See [WAL-E's documentation][wale
official] for more details.

To enable the WAL-E docker image to perform archiving, it needs to use
the network and data volume(s) of the TimescaleDB container. It also
needs to know the location of the write-ahead log and data
directories. Thus, launch the WAL-E sidecar as follows:

```bash
docker run​ \
    --name wale \
    --network timescaledb-net \
    --volumes-from timescaledb \
    -v ~/backups:/backups \
    -e WALE_LOG_DESTINATION=stderr \
    -e PGWAL=/var/lib/postgresql/data/pg_wal \
    -e PGDATA=/var/lib/postgresql/data/pg_data \
    -e PGHOST=timescaledb \
    -e PGPASSWORD=insecure \
    -e PGUSER=postgres \
    -e WALE_FILE_PREFIX=file://localhost/backups \
    timescale/timescaledb-wale:latest
```

This will make the WAL-E image listen on commands on port 80 on the
`timescaledb-net` internal network and write backups to `~/backups` on
the Docker host.

To do the initial base backup, execute the following command in the
running WAL-E container (assuming the container's name is
`timescaledb-wale`):

```bash
docker exec wale wal-e backup-push /var/lib/postgresql/data/pg_data
```

Alternatively, do it via the sidecar's HTTP endpoint (this requires
exposing the sidecar's port `80` on the Docker host by mapping it to,
e.g., port `8080`):

```bash
curl http://localhost:8080/backup-push
```

Base backups should be done at regular intervals (e.g., every day) to
minimize the amount of WAL replay, making recoveries faster. To make
new base backups, simply re-trigger a base backup as shown above,
either manually or on a schedule (e.g., via a CRON job). If you run
TimescaleDB on Kubernetes, there is built-in support for scheduling
cron jobs that can invoke base backups via, e.g., the WAL-E
container's HTTP API.

### Recovery [](docker-wale-restore)

To recover the database instance from the backup archive, create a new
TimescaleDB container:

```bash
docker create \
    --name timescaledb-recovered \
    --network timescaledb-net \
    -e POSTGRES_PASSWORD=insecure \
    -e POSTGRES_INITDB_WALDIR=/var/lib/postgresql/data/pg_wal \
    -e PGDATA=/var/lib/postgresql/data/pg_data \
    timescale/timescaledb:latest-pg10 postgres
```

Now restore the database files from the base backup:

```bash
docker run -it --rm \
    -v ~/backups:/backups \
    --volumes-from timescaledb-recovered \
    -e WALE_LOG_DESTINATION=stderr \
    -e WALE_FILE_PREFIX=file://localhost/backups \
    timescale/timescaledb-wale:latest \wal-e \
    backup-fetch /var/lib/postgresql/data/pg_data LATEST
```

Recreate some configuration files (normally, these are backed up
configuration files from the old database instance):

```bash
docker run -it --rm  \
    --volumes-from timescaledb-recovered \
    timescale/timescaledb:latest-pg10 \
    cp /usr/local/share/postgresql/pg_ident.conf.sample /var/lib/postgresql/data/pg_data/pg_ident.conf

docker run -it --rm  \
    --volumes-from timescaledb-recovered \
    timescale/timescaledb:latest-pg10 \
    cp /usr/local/share/postgresql/postgresql.conf.sample /var/lib/postgresql/data/pg_data/postgresql.conf

docker run -it --rm  \
    --volumes-from timescaledb-recovered \
    timescale/timescaledb:latest-pg10 \
    sh -c 'echo "local all postgres trust" > /var/lib/postgresql/data/pg_data/pg_hba.conf'
```

Now create a `recovery.conf` that tells PostgreSQL how to recover:

```bash
docker run -it --rm  \
    --volumes-from timescaledb-recovered \
    timescale/timescaledb:latest-pg10 \
    sh -c 'echo "restore_command='\''/usr/bin/wget wale/wal-fetch/%f -O -'\''" > /var/lib/postgresql/data/pg_data/recovery.conf'
```

Then run the WAL-E sidecar again (you may have to remove the old one
first). It will be used to replay the last WAL segments that may not
be reflected in the base backup:

```bash
docker run \
    --name wale \
    --network timescaledb-net \
    -v ~/backups:/backups \
    --volumes-from timescaledb-recovered \
    -e WALE_LOG_DESTINATION=stderr \
    -e PGWAL=/var/lib/postgresql/data/pg_wal \
    -e PGDATA=/var/lib/postgresql/data/pg_data \
    -e PGHOST=timescaledb \
    -e PGPASSWORD=insecure \
    -e PGUSER=postgres \
    -e WALE_FILE_PREFIX=file://localhost/backups \
    timescale/timescaledb-wale:latest
```

Finally, launch the TimescaleDB docker container:

```bash
docker start timescaledb-recovered
```

Verify that the database started up and recovered successfully:

```bash
docker logs timescaledb-recovered
```

Note that it is normal to see some archive recovery "errors" at the
end as the recovery will be complete when no further files can be
found in the archive. See the PostgreSQL documentation on
[continuous archiving][pg archiving] for more information.

[replication-tutorial]: /tutorials/replication
[postgres-pg_basebackup]: https://www.postgresql.org/docs/current/app-pgbasebackup.html
[pg-backrest]: https://pgbackrest.org/
[pg-barman]: https://www.pgbarman.org/
[wale official]: https://github.com/wal-e/wal-e
[pg_dump]: https://www.postgresql.org/docs/current/static/app-pgdump.html
[pg_restore]: https://www.postgresql.org/docs/current/static/app-pgrestore.html
[updating instructions]: /api/update-db
[parallel importer]: https://github.com/timescale/timescaledb-parallel-copy
[pg archiving]: https://www.postgresql.org/docs/current/continuous-archiving.html#BACKUP-PITR-RECOVERY
[wale image]: https://hub.docker.com/r/timescale/timescaledb-wale

Commit message:

Update limitations section for multi-node

using-timescaledb/backup.md, after:

# Backup & Restore [](backup)

Backing up TimescaleDB takes advantage of the reliable functionality already
available through PostgreSQL.  There are several ways to accomplish this:
physical backups with `pg_basebackup` or another tool, or logical backups with
`pg_dump` and `pg_restore`. Physical backups may also be used with Write-Ahead Log
(WAL) archiving to achieve an ongoing backup.

>:WARNING:TimescaleDB currently does not natively support a consistent restore point for multi-node environments. Care should be taken to ensure third-party solutions properly quiesce the environment before backing up, so that the backup point used across nodes does not have outstanding transactions.

## Performing Physical Backups [](physical-backups)

For full instance physical backups (which are especially useful for starting up
new [replicas][replication-tutorial]), [`pg_basebackup`][postgres-pg_basebackup]
works with all TimescaleDB installations. You can also use any of several
external backup and restore managers such as [`pg_backrest`][pg-backrest],
[`barman`][pg-barman], or [`wal-e`][wale official]. These allow you to take
online, hot physical backups of your entire instance, and many offer incremental
backups and other automation options.



## Using `pg_dump` and `pg_restore` [](pg_dump-pg_restore)

In this section, we cover how to backup and restore an entire
database or individual hypertables using the native PostgreSQL
[`pg_dump`][pg_dump] and [`pg_restore`][pg_restore] commands.

>:TIP: Upgrades between different versions of TimescaleDB can be done in place;
 you don't need to backup/restore your data.
 Follow these [updating instructions][].

<!-- -->

### Entire database

To backup a database named _tutorial_, run from the command line:

```bash
pg_dump -Fc -f tutorial.bak tutorial
```

Restoring data from a backup currently requires some additional procedures,
which need to be run from `psql`:
```sql
CREATE DATABASE tutorial;
\c tutorial --connect to the db where we'll perform the restore
CREATE EXTENSION timescaledb;
SELECT timescaledb_pre_restore();

-- execute the restore (or from a shell)
\! pg_restore -Fc -d tutorial tutorial.bak


SELECT timescaledb_post_restore();
```

>:WARNING: PostgreSQL's `pg_dump` does not currently specify the *version* of
 the extension in its backup, which leads to problems if you are
 restoring into a database instance with a more recent extension
 version installed.  (In particular, the backup could be for some
 version 1.6, but then the `CREATE EXTENSION timescaledb` command just
 installs the latest (say, 1.7), and thus does not have the
 opportunity to run our upgrade scripts.)  
>
>The workaround is that when restoring from a backup, you need to
 restore to a PostgreSQL instance with the same extension version
 installed, and *then* upgrade the version.

<!-- -->
>:WARNING: These instructions do not work if you use flags to selectively
 choose tables (`-t`) or schemas (`--schema`), and so cannot be used
 to backup only an individual hypertable.  In particular, even if you
 explicitly specify both the hypertable and all of its constituent
 chunks, this dump would still lack necessary information that
 TimescaleDB stores in the database catalog about the relation between
 these tables.
>
>You can, however, explicitly *exclude* tables from this whole
 database backup (`-T`), as well as continue to selectively backup
 plain tables (i.e., non-hypertable) as well.


### Individual hypertables

Below is the procedure for performing a backup and restore of hypertable `conditions`.

#### Backup

Backup the hypertable schema:
```bash
pg_dump -s -d old_db --table conditions -N _timescaledb_internal | \
  grep -v _timescaledb_internal > schema.sql
```

Backup the hypertable data to a CSV file.
```bash
psql -d old_db \
-c "\COPY (SELECT * FROM conditions) TO data.csv DELIMITER ',' CSV"
```

#### Restore
Restore the schema:
```bash
psql -d new_db < schema.sql
```

Recreate the hypertables:
```bash
psql -d new_db -c "SELECT create_hypertable('conditions', 'time')"
```

>:TIP: The parameters to `create_hypertable` do not need to be
the same as in the old db, so this is a good way to re-organize
your hypertables (e.g., change partitioning key, number of
partitions, chunk interval sizes, etc.).

Restore the data:
```bash
psql -d new_db -c "\COPY conditions FROM data.csv CSV"
```

>:TIP: The standard `COPY` command in PostgreSQL is single threaded.
 So to speed up importing larger amounts of data, we recommend using
 our [parallel importer][] instead.

## Continuous archiving and recovery with Docker & WAL-E [](docker-wale)

When using TimescaleDB in a containerized environment, it is possible
to do [continuous archiving][pg archiving] using a [WAL-E][wale
official] "sidecar" container (i.e., a container that runs alongside
the main container). For this purpose, we provide a [WAL-E sidecar
image][wale image] that works with TimescaleDB as well as regular
PostgreSQL. In the following example, we will setup archiving to the
local filesystem using one main TimescaleDB container called
`timescaledb`, and one WAL-E sidecar called `wale`. For production
deployments, this example can be adapted to do archiving against,
e.g., AWS S3, and run in an orchestration framework like Kubernetes.

### Running the TimescaleDB container

To make TimescaleDB use the WAL-E sidecar for archiving, the two
containers need to share a network. Create a Docker network like so:

```bash
docker network create timescaledb-net
```

Then launch TimescaleDB with archiving turned on, using the newly
created network:

```bash
docker run​ \
    --name timescaledb \
    --network timescaledb-net \
    -e POSTGRES_PASSWORD=insecure \
    -e POSTGRES_INITDB_WALDIR=/var/lib/postgresql/data/pg_wal \
    -e PGDATA=/var/lib/postgresql/data/pg_data \
    timescale/timescaledb:latest-pg10 postgres \
    -cwal_level=archive \
    -carchive_mode=on \
    -carchive_command="/usr/bin/wget wale/wal-push/%f -O -" \
    -carchive_timeout=600 \
    -ccheckpoint_timeout=700 \
    -cmax_wal_senders=1
```

We explicitly set the location of the write-ahead log
(`POSTGRES_INITDB_WALDIR`) and data directory (`PGDATA`) so that we
can share these with the WAL-E sidecar. Both must reside in a Docker
volume (a volume is created for `/var/lib/postgresql/data` by
default).

It is now possible to log into the database and create tables and
data:

```bash
docker exec -it timescaledb psql -U postgres
```

### Running the WAL-E sidecar

Our [WAL-E Docker image][wale image] runs a small Web endpoint that
accepts WAL-E commands via a HTTP API. This allows PostgreSQL to
communicate with the WAL-E sidecar over the internal network to
trigger archiving. It is, of course, also possible to use the
container to invoke WAL-E directly. The Docker image accepts the
standard WAL-E environment variables to configure the archiving
backend (e.g., AWS S3) and more. See [WAL-E's documentation][wale
official] for more details.

To enable the WAL-E docker image to perform archiving, it needs to use
the network and data volume(s) of the TimescaleDB container. It also
needs to know the location of the write-ahead log and data
directories. Thus, launch the WAL-E sidecar as follows:

```bash
docker run​ \
    --name wale \
    --network timescaledb-net \
    --volumes-from timescaledb \
    -v ~/backups:/backups \
    -e WALE_LOG_DESTINATION=stderr \
    -e PGWAL=/var/lib/postgresql/data/pg_wal \
    -e PGDATA=/var/lib/postgresql/data/pg_data \
    -e PGHOST=timescaledb \
    -e PGPASSWORD=insecure \
    -e PGUSER=postgres \
    -e WALE_FILE_PREFIX=file://localhost/backups \
    timescale/timescaledb-wale:latest
```

This will make the WAL-E image listen on commands on port 80 on the
`timescaledb-net` internal network and write backups to `~/backups` on
the Docker host.

To do the initial base backup, execute the following command in the
running WAL-E container (assuming the container's name is
`timescaledb-wale`):

```bash
docker exec wale wal-e backup-push /var/lib/postgresql/data/pg_data
```

Alternatively, do it via the sidecar's HTTP endpoint (this requires
exposing the sidecar's port `80` on the Docker host by mapping it to,
e.g., port `8080`):

```bash
curl http://localhost:8080/backup-push
```

Base backups should be done at regular intervals (e.g., every day) to
minimize the amount of WAL replay, making recoveries faster. To make
new base backups, simply re-trigger a base backup as shown above,
either manually or on a schedule (e.g., via a CRON job). If you run
TimescaleDB on Kubernetes, there is built-in support for scheduling
cron jobs that can invoke base backups via, e.g., the WAL-E
container's HTTP API.

### Recovery [](docker-wale-restore)

To recover the database instance from the backup archive, create a new
TimescaleDB container:

```bash
docker create \
    --name timescaledb-recovered \
    --network timescaledb-net \
    -e POSTGRES_PASSWORD=insecure \
    -e POSTGRES_INITDB_WALDIR=/var/lib/postgresql/data/pg_wal \
    -e PGDATA=/var/lib/postgresql/data/pg_data \
    timescale/timescaledb:latest-pg10 postgres
```

Now restore the database files from the base backup:

```bash
docker run -it --rm \
    -v ~/backups:/backups \
    --volumes-from timescaledb-recovered \
    -e WALE_LOG_DESTINATION=stderr \
    -e WALE_FILE_PREFIX=file://localhost/backups \
    timescale/timescaledb-wale:latest \wal-e \
    backup-fetch /var/lib/postgresql/data/pg_data LATEST
```

Recreate some configuration files (normally, these are backed up
configuration files from the old database instance):

```bash
docker run -it --rm  \
    --volumes-from timescaledb-recovered \
    timescale/timescaledb:latest-pg10 \
    cp /usr/local/share/postgresql/pg_ident.conf.sample /var/lib/postgresql/data/pg_data/pg_ident.conf

docker run -it --rm  \
    --volumes-from timescaledb-recovered \
    timescale/timescaledb:latest-pg10 \
    cp /usr/local/share/postgresql/postgresql.conf.sample /var/lib/postgresql/data/pg_data/postgresql.conf

docker run -it --rm  \
    --volumes-from timescaledb-recovered \
    timescale/timescaledb:latest-pg10 \
    sh -c 'echo "local all postgres trust" > /var/lib/postgresql/data/pg_data/pg_hba.conf'
```

Now create a `recovery.conf` that tells PostgreSQL how to recover:

```bash
docker run -it --rm  \
    --volumes-from timescaledb-recovered \
    timescale/timescaledb:latest-pg10 \
    sh -c 'echo "restore_command='\''/usr/bin/wget wale/wal-fetch/%f -O -'\''" > /var/lib/postgresql/data/pg_data/recovery.conf'
```

Then run the WAL-E sidecar again (you may have to remove the old one
first). It will be used to replay the last WAL segments that may not
be reflected in the base backup:

```bash
docker run \
    --name wale \
    --network timescaledb-net \
    -v ~/backups:/backups \
    --volumes-from timescaledb-recovered \
    -e WALE_LOG_DESTINATION=stderr \
    -e PGWAL=/var/lib/postgresql/data/pg_wal \
    -e PGDATA=/var/lib/postgresql/data/pg_data \
    -e PGHOST=timescaledb \
    -e PGPASSWORD=insecure \
    -e PGUSER=postgres \
    -e WALE_FILE_PREFIX=file://localhost/backups \
    timescale/timescaledb-wale:latest
```

Finally, launch the TimescaleDB docker container:

```bash
docker start timescaledb-recovered
```

Verify that the database started up and recovered successfully:

```bash
docker logs timescaledb-recovered
```

Note that it is normal to see some archive recovery "errors" at the
end as the recovery will be complete when no further files can be
found in the archive. See the PostgreSQL documentation on
[continuous archiving][pg archiving] for more information.

[replication-tutorial]: /tutorials/replication
[postgres-pg_basebackup]: https://www.postgresql.org/docs/current/app-pgbasebackup.html
[pg-backrest]: https://pgbackrest.org/
[pg-barman]: https://www.pgbarman.org/
[wale official]: https://github.com/wal-e/wal-e
[pg_dump]: https://www.postgresql.org/docs/current/static/app-pgdump.html
[pg_restore]: https://www.postgresql.org/docs/current/static/app-pgrestore.html
[updating instructions]: /api/update-db
[parallel importer]: https://github.com/timescale/timescaledb-parallel-copy
[pg archiving]: https://www.postgresql.org/docs/current/continuous-archiving.html#BACKUP-PITR-RECOVERY
[wale image]: https://hub.docker.com/r/timescale/timescaledb-wale
