using-timescaledb/hypertables.md, before:

# Hypertable Basics

Hypertables in TimescaleDB are designed to be easy to manage and to behave
predictably to users familiar with standard PostgreSQL tables. Along those lines,
SQL commands to create, alter, or delete (hyper)tables in TimescaleDB are
identical to those in PostgreSQL.  Even though hypertables are comprised of many
interlinked "chunk" tables, commands made to the hypertable automatically propagate
changes down to all of the chunks belonging to that hypertable.

### Create a Hypertable [](create)

Creating a hypertable is a two-step process.
<!-- add steps format?-->
1. Create a standard table ([PostgreSQL docs][postgres-createtable]).
```sql
CREATE TABLE conditions (
    time        TIMESTAMPTZ       NOT NULL,
    location    TEXT              NOT NULL,
    temperature DOUBLE PRECISION  NULL
);
```

1. Then, execute the TimescaleDB `create_hypertable` command on this
newly created table ([API docs][create_hypertable]).

>:TIP: If you need to *migrate* data from an existing table to a hypertable, make
sure to set the `migrate_data` argument to `true` when calling the function.
If you would like finer control over index formation and other aspects
of your hypertable, [follow these migration instructions instead][migrate-from-postgresql].

<!-- -->
>:WARNING: The use of the `migrate_data` argument to convert a non-empty table can
lock the table for a significant amount of time, depending on how much data is
in the table.

>:TIP: The 'time' column used in the `create_hypertable` function supports
timestamp, date, or integer types, so you can use a parameter that is not
explicitly time-based, as long as it can increment.  For example, a
monotonically increasing id would work.

---

### Alter a Hypertable [](alter)

You can execute standard `ALTER TABLE` commands against the hypertable ([PostgreSQL docs][postgres-altertable]).

```sql
ALTER TABLE conditions
  ADD COLUMN humidity DOUBLE PRECISION NULL;
```

TimescaleDB will then automatically propagate these schema changes to
the chunks that constitute this hypertable.

>:WARNING: Altering a table's schema is quite efficient provided that the default
 value for any additional column is set to NULL.  If the default is set to a
 non-null value, TimescaleDB will need to fill in this value for all rows
 (of all chunks) belonging to this hypertable.

---

### Deleting a Hypertable [](drop)

It's just the standard `DROP TABLE` command, where TimescaleDB will
correspondingly delete all chunks belonging to the hypertable.
```sql
DROP TABLE conditions;
```

---

### Best Practices [](best-practices)

Users of TimescaleDB often have two common questions:

1. How large should I configure my intervals for time partitioning?
1. Should I use space partitioning, and how many space partitions should I use?

**Time intervals**:
Users can use the default time interval, which is 7 days starting in v0.11.0
and 1 month prior to v0.11.0.
Alternatively, users can explicitly configure time intervals by
setting `chunk_time_interval` when creating a hypertable.
After the hypertable has been created, the interval used for new chunks can be changed by calling [`set_chunk_time_interval`][set_chunk_time_interval].

The key property of choosing the time interval is that the chunk (including indexes) belonging to the most recent interval (or chunks if using space
partitions) fit into memory.  As such, we typically recommend setting
the interval so that these chunk(s) comprise no more than 25% of main
memory.

>:TIP: Make sure that you are planning for single chunks from _all_ active hypertables fit into 25% of main memory, rather than 25% per hypertable.

To determine this, you need to have a general idea of your data rate.  If
you are writing roughly 2GB of data per day and have 64GB of memory,
setting the time interval to a week would be good.  If you are writing
10GB per day on the same machine, setting the time interval to a day
would be appropriate.  This interval would also hold if data is loaded
more in batches, e.g., you bulk load 70GB of data per week, with data
corresponding to records from throughout the week.

While it's generally safer to make chunks smaller rather than too
large, setting intervals too small can lead to *many* chunks, which
corresponds to increased planning latency for some types of queries.

>:TIP: One caveat is that the total chunk size is actually dependent on
both the underlying data size *and* any indexes, so some care might be
taken if you make heavy use of expensive index types (e.g., some
PostGIS geospatial indexes).  During testing, you might check your
total chunk sizes via the [`chunk_relation_size`][chunk_relation_size] function.

**Space partitions**: The use of additional partitioning is a very
specialized use case.  **Most users will not need to use it.**

Space partitions use hashing: Every distinct item is hashed to one of
N buckets.  Remember that we are already using (flexible) time
intervals to manage chunk sizes; the main purpose of space
partitioning is to enable parallel I/O to the same time interval.

Parallel I/O can benefit in two scenarios: (a) two or more concurrent
queries should be able to read from different disks in parallel, or
(b) a single query should be able to use query parallelization to read
from multiple disks in parallel.

Thus, users looking for parallel I/O have two options:

1. Use a RAID setup across multiple physical disks, and expose a
single logical disk to the hypertable (i.e., via a single tablespace).

1. For each physical disk, add a separate tablespace to the
database.  TimescaleDB allows you to actually add multiple tablespaces
to a *single* hypertable (although under the covers, each underlying
chunk will be mapped by TimescaleDB to a single tablespace / physical
disk).

We recommend a RAID setup when possible, as it supports both forms of
parallelization described above (i.e., separate queries to separate
disks, single query to multiple disks in parallel).  The multiple
tablespace approach only supports the former.  With a RAID setup,
*no spatial partitioning is required*.

That said, when using space partitions, we recommend using 1
space partition per disk.

TimescaleDB does *not* benefit from a very large number of space
partitions (such as the number of unique items you expect in partition
field).  A very large number of such partitions leads both to poorer
per-partition load balancing (the mapping of items to partitions using
hashing), as well as much increased planning latency for some types of
queries.

[postgres-createtable]: https://www.postgresql.org/docs/current/sql-createtable.html
[create_hypertable]: /api#create_hypertable
[migrate-from-postgresql]: /getting-started/migrating-data
[postgres-altertable]: https://www.postgresql.org/docs/current/sql-altertable.html
[set_chunk_time_interval]: /api#set_chunk_time_interval
[chunk_relation_size]: /api#chunk_relation_size

Commit message:

Add SQL statement to find current chunk interval
This adds a SQL query against _timescaledb_catalog.hypertable and
_timescaledb_catalog.dimension to get the current interval length for
hypertables, since this is not shown in the current information views.
It is added both to the API reference for
timescaledb_information.hypertable and the Hypertable page of
Using TimescaleDB.

using-timescaledb/hypertables.md, after:

# Hypertable Basics

Hypertables in TimescaleDB are designed to be easy to manage and to behave
predictably to users familiar with standard PostgreSQL tables. Along those lines,
SQL commands to create, alter, or delete (hyper)tables in TimescaleDB are
identical to those in PostgreSQL.  Even though hypertables are comprised of many
interlinked "chunk" tables, commands made to the hypertable automatically propagate
changes down to all of the chunks belonging to that hypertable.

### Create a Hypertable [](create)

Creating a hypertable is a two-step process.
<!-- add steps format?-->
1. Create a standard table ([PostgreSQL docs][postgres-createtable]).
```sql
CREATE TABLE conditions (
    time        TIMESTAMPTZ       NOT NULL,
    location    TEXT              NOT NULL,
    temperature DOUBLE PRECISION  NULL
);
```

1. Then, execute the TimescaleDB `create_hypertable` command on this
newly created table ([API docs][create_hypertable]).

>:TIP: If you need to *migrate* data from an existing table to a hypertable, make
sure to set the `migrate_data` argument to `true` when calling the function.
If you would like finer control over index formation and other aspects
of your hypertable, [follow these migration instructions instead][migrate-from-postgresql].

<!-- -->
>:WARNING: The use of the `migrate_data` argument to convert a non-empty table can
lock the table for a significant amount of time, depending on how much data is
in the table.

>:TIP: The 'time' column used in the `create_hypertable` function supports
timestamp, date, or integer types, so you can use a parameter that is not
explicitly time-based, as long as it can increment.  For example, a
monotonically increasing id would work.

---

### Alter a Hypertable [](alter)

You can execute standard `ALTER TABLE` commands against the hypertable ([PostgreSQL docs][postgres-altertable]).

```sql
ALTER TABLE conditions
  ADD COLUMN humidity DOUBLE PRECISION NULL;
```

TimescaleDB will then automatically propagate these schema changes to
the chunks that constitute this hypertable.

>:WARNING: Altering a table's schema is quite efficient provided that the default
 value for any additional column is set to NULL.  If the default is set to a
 non-null value, TimescaleDB will need to fill in this value for all rows
 (of all chunks) belonging to this hypertable.

---

### Deleting a Hypertable [](drop)

It's just the standard `DROP TABLE` command, where TimescaleDB will
correspondingly delete all chunks belonging to the hypertable.
```sql
DROP TABLE conditions;
```

---

### Best Practices [](best-practices)

Users of TimescaleDB often have two common questions:

1. How large should I configure my intervals for time partitioning?
1. Should I use space partitioning, and how many space partitions should I use?

**Time intervals**:
Users can use the default time interval, which is 7 days starting in v0.11.0
and 1 month prior to v0.11.0.
Alternatively, users can explicitly configure time intervals by
setting `chunk_time_interval` when creating a hypertable.
After the hypertable has been created, the interval used for new chunks can be changed by calling [`set_chunk_time_interval`][set_chunk_time_interval].

The key property of choosing the time interval is that the chunk (including indexes) belonging to the most recent interval (or chunks if using space
partitions) fit into memory.  As such, we typically recommend setting
the interval so that these chunk(s) comprise no more than 25% of main
memory.

If you want to see the current interval length for your hypertables, you can
check the `_timescaledb_catalog` as follows. Note that for time-based interval
lenghts, these are reported in microseconds.

```sql
SELECT h.table_name, c.interval_length   FROM _timescaledb_catalog.dimension c
JOIN _timescaledb_catalog.hypertable h ON h.id = c.hypertable_id;

table_name | interval_length
------------+-----------------
metrics       |    604800000000
(1 row)
```

>:TIP: Make sure that you are planning for single chunks from _all_ active hypertables fit into 25% of main memory, rather than 25% per hypertable.

To determine this, you need to have a general idea of your data rate.  If
you are writing roughly 2GB of data per day and have 64GB of memory,
setting the time interval to a week would be good.  If you are writing
10GB per day on the same machine, setting the time interval to a day
would be appropriate.  This interval would also hold if data is loaded
more in batches, e.g., you bulk load 70GB of data per week, with data
corresponding to records from throughout the week.

While it's generally safer to make chunks smaller rather than too
large, setting intervals too small can lead to *many* chunks, which
corresponds to increased planning latency for some types of queries.

>:TIP: One caveat is that the total chunk size is actually dependent on
both the underlying data size *and* any indexes, so some care might be
taken if you make heavy use of expensive index types (e.g., some
PostGIS geospatial indexes).  During testing, you might check your
total chunk sizes via the [`chunk_relation_size`][chunk_relation_size] function.

**Space partitions**: The use of additional partitioning is a very
specialized use case.  **Most users will not need to use it.**

Space partitions use hashing: Every distinct item is hashed to one of
N buckets.  Remember that we are already using (flexible) time
intervals to manage chunk sizes; the main purpose of space
partitioning is to enable parallel I/O to the same time interval.

Parallel I/O can benefit in two scenarios: (a) two or more concurrent
queries should be able to read from different disks in parallel, or
(b) a single query should be able to use query parallelization to read
from multiple disks in parallel.

Thus, users looking for parallel I/O have two options:

1. Use a RAID setup across multiple physical disks, and expose a
single logical disk to the hypertable (i.e., via a single tablespace).

1. For each physical disk, add a separate tablespace to the
database.  TimescaleDB allows you to actually add multiple tablespaces
to a *single* hypertable (although under the covers, each underlying
chunk will be mapped by TimescaleDB to a single tablespace / physical
disk).

We recommend a RAID setup when possible, as it supports both forms of
parallelization described above (i.e., separate queries to separate
disks, single query to multiple disks in parallel).  The multiple
tablespace approach only supports the former.  With a RAID setup,
*no spatial partitioning is required*.

That said, when using space partitions, we recommend using 1
space partition per disk.

TimescaleDB does *not* benefit from a very large number of space
partitions (such as the number of unique items you expect in partition
field).  A very large number of such partitions leads both to poorer
per-partition load balancing (the mapping of items to partitions using
hashing), as well as much increased planning latency for some types of
queries.

[postgres-createtable]: https://www.postgresql.org/docs/current/sql-createtable.html
[create_hypertable]: /api#create_hypertable
[migrate-from-postgresql]: /getting-started/migrating-data
[postgres-altertable]: https://www.postgresql.org/docs/current/sql-altertable.html
[set_chunk_time_interval]: /api#set_chunk_time_interval
[chunk_relation_size]: /api#chunk_relation_size
