using-timescaledb/telemetry.md, before:

# Telemetry and Version Checking
Starting in v0.12.0 we enable anonymous usage sharing to help us better understand and assist Timescale users. We emphasize that privacy of our users is paramount, so we do not collect any identifying information. The following is an example of the JSON that is sent to our servers about a specific deployment:

```javascript
{
	"db_uuid": "26917841-2fc0-48fd-b096-ba19b3fda98f",
	"exported_db_uuid": "8dd4543c-f44e-43c9-a666-02d23bb09b90",
	"installed_time": "2000-04-17 10:56:59.427738-04",
	"install_method": "source",
	"os_name": "Darwin",
	"os_version": "Darwin Kernel Version 17.5.0: Mon Mar  5 22:24:32 PST 2018",
	"os_release": "17.5.0",
	"postgresql_version": "10.4",
	"timescaledb_version": "0.12.0",
	"build_os_name": "Darwin",
	"build_os_version":"17.5.0",
	"data_volume": "65982148",
	"num_hypertables": "3",
	"related_extensions": 
    	{
		"pg_prometheus": "false",
		"PostGIS": "true"
    	}
}
```

Specifically, both UUID fields are randomly generated by appropriately seeded random
number generators, so there is no identification information in this field. For full
transparency, we expose a new API function, [`get_report`][get_report], that prints out the exact JSON that is sent to our servers.

## Version Checking
The database sends telemetry reports periodically in the background. 
In response to the telemetry report, the database will receive the most recent version of TimescaleDB
available for installation. This version will be recorded in the user’s server logs, along with any applicable
out-of-date version warnings. While you do not have to update immediately to the newest release, many users have
reported that performance issues or bugs automatically resolve after updating their version of TimescaleDB. 

## Disabling Telemetry
Although we invite our community to help us keep improving our
product, we do understand when users would like to disable telemetry. Note that
disabling telemetry also disables the version checking functionality.

To turn off telemetry, simply include the following line in your `postgresql.conf` file:

```
timescaledb.metrics_level=off
```

Alternatively, in a psql console, run:

```
ALTER [SYSTEM | DATABASE | USER] SET timescaledb.metrics_level=off
```

Note that superuser privileges are necessary to run `ALTER SYSTEM`.
Then reload the new server configuration in order for the configuration changes to take effect.

If at a later time you wish to re-enable version checking and telemetry, either include the following line in
`postgresql.conf`:

```
timescaledb.metrics_level=basic
```

or run the following command in psql:

```
ALTER [SYSTEM | DATABASE | USER] SET timescaledb.metrics_level=basic
```

[get_report]: /api#get_report

Commit message:

Update UUID generation description
Good RNGs for UUID generation are not available until PG10, so we have updated docs to reflect this.

using-timescaledb/telemetry.md, after:

# Telemetry and Version Checking
Starting in v0.12.0 we enable anonymous usage sharing to help us better understand and assist Timescale users. We emphasize that privacy of our users is paramount, so we do not collect any identifying information. The following is an example of the JSON that is sent to our servers about a specific deployment:

```javascript
{
	"db_uuid": "26917841-2fc0-48fd-b096-ba19b3fda98f",
	"exported_db_uuid": "8dd4543c-f44e-43c9-a666-02d23bb09b90",
	"installed_time": "2000-04-17 10:56:59.427738-04",
	"install_method": "source",
	"os_name": "Darwin",
	"os_version": "Darwin Kernel Version 17.5.0: Mon Mar  5 22:24:32 PST 2018",
	"os_release": "17.5.0",
	"postgresql_version": "10.4",
	"timescaledb_version": "0.12.0",
	"build_os_name": "Darwin",
	"build_os_version":"17.5.0",
	"data_volume": "65982148",
	"num_hypertables": "3",
	"related_extensions": 
    	{
		"pg_prometheus": "false",
		"PostGIS": "true"
    	}
}
```

In particular, the UUID fields contain no identifying information. Both UUID fields are either randomly generated by appropriately seeded random number generators or the current timestamp, depending on the version of Postgres available. In older versions of Postgres (e.g.: v9.6), the UUIDs contain the current timestamp.
For full transparency, we expose a new API function, [`get_report`][get_report], that prints out the exact JSON that is sent to our servers.

## Version Checking
The database sends telemetry reports periodically in the background. 
In response to the telemetry report, the database will receive the most recent version of TimescaleDB
available for installation. This version will be recorded in the user’s server logs, along with any applicable
out-of-date version warnings. While you do not have to update immediately to the newest release, many users have
reported that performance issues or bugs automatically resolve after updating their version of TimescaleDB. 

## Disabling Telemetry
Although we invite our community to help us keep improving our
product, we do understand when users would like to disable telemetry. Note that
disabling telemetry also disables the version checking functionality.

To turn off telemetry, simply include the following line in your `postgresql.conf` file:

```
timescaledb.metrics_level=off
```

Alternatively, in a psql console, run:

```
ALTER [SYSTEM | DATABASE | USER] SET timescaledb.metrics_level=off
```

Note that superuser privileges are necessary to run `ALTER SYSTEM`.
Then reload the new server configuration in order for the configuration changes to take effect.

If at a later time you wish to re-enable version checking and telemetry, either include the following line in
`postgresql.conf`:

```
timescaledb.metrics_level=basic
```

or run the following command in psql:

```
ALTER [SYSTEM | DATABASE | USER] SET timescaledb.metrics_level=basic
```

[get_report]: /api#get_report
