# Telemetry and Version Checking
We enable anonymous usage sharing to help us better
understand and assist TimescaleDB users, as well as provide automated version
checks. We emphasize that privacy of our users is paramount, so we do not
collect any personally-identifying information. The following is an example of
the JSON that is sent to our servers about a specific deployment:

```javascript
{
	"db_uuid": "26917841-2fc0-48fd-b096-ba19b3fda98f",
	"license": {
		"edition": "community"
	},
	"exported_db_uuid": "8dd4543c-f44e-43c9-a666-02d23bb09b90",
	"installed_time": "2000-04-17 10:56:59.427738-04",
	"last_tuned_time": "2001-02-03T04:05:06-0300",
	"last_tuned_version": "1.0.0",
	"install_method": "source",
	"os_name": "Linux",
	"os_release": "4.9.125-linuxkit",
	"os_version": "#1 SMP Fri Sep 7 08:20:28 UTC 2018",
	"os_name_pretty": "Debian GNU/Linux 8 (jessie)",
	"postgresql_version": "10.4",
	"timescaledb_version": "0.12.0",
	"build_architecture": "x86_64",
	"build_architecture_bit_size": "64",
	"build_os_name": "Linux",
	"build_os_version": "4.9.125-linuxkit",
	"data_volume": "65982148",
	"db_metadata":
    	{
    	},
	"num_hypertables": "3",
	"num_continuous_aggs": "0",
	"num_reorder_policies": "1",
	"num_drop_chunks_policies": "2",
	"related_extensions":
    	{
		"pg_prometheus": "false",
		"PostGIS": "true"
    	}
}
```

In particular, the `UUID` fields contain no identifying information.
Both `UUID` fields are either randomly generated by appropriately seeded
random number generators.  For full transparency, we expose a
new API function, [`get_telemetry_report`][get_telemetry_report], that returns
a text string of the exact JSON that is sent to our servers.

Additionally any content of the table `_timescaledb_catalog.metadata` which has
`include_in_telemetry` set to `true` and the value of `timescaledb_telemetry.cloud`
will be included in the telemetry report.

Notably, telemetry reports a different set of values depending on the license
that your TimescaleDB instance is running under. If you are using OSS or Community,
we only send an "edition" field, which could have a value of either "apache_only" or "community",
as relevant.

If you are using an Enterprise license, we report a few more relevant items, a sample
of which is below.

```javascript
"license": {
	"id": "490FB260-A292-4AD9-9AA2-0360835791B8",
	"kind": "trial",
	"edition": "enterprise",
	"end_time": "2018-09-30 20:00:00-04",
	"start_time": "2018-08-31 20:00:00-04"
}
```

## Version Checking
The database sends telemetry reports periodically in the background.
In response to the telemetry report, the database will receive the most recent
version of TimescaleDB available for installation. This version will be
recorded in the user’s server logs, along with any applicable out-of-date
version warnings. While you do not have to update immediately to the newest
release, many users have reported that performance issues or bugs
automatically resolve after updating their version of TimescaleDB.

## Disabling Telemetry

Although we invite our community to help us keep improving our
product, we do understand when users would like to disable
telemetry. Note that disabling telemetry also disables the version
checking functionality.

Telemetry is sent on a per-database basis, so users can disable
telemetry for specific databases or for an entire instance.

To disable telemetry, it is necessary to both remove the telemetry job
from the job list and it is turn down the telemetry reporting
level. Turning down the telemetry reporting level ensures that nothing
is sent out even if the telemetry job is scheduled.  Removing the
telemetry job from the jobs list will avoid it being scheduled for
execution and hence prevent warnings and and errors resulting from
scheduling an empty job. These two settings can be done independently.

To turn down the telemetry level for an instance, include the
following line in your `postgresql.conf` file:

```
timescaledb.telemetry_level=off
```

Alternatively, in a `psql` console, run:

```
ALTER [SYSTEM | DATABASE | USER] { *db_name* | *role_specification* } SET timescaledb.telemetry_level=off
```

If `ALTER DATABASE` is run, then this will turn down the telemetry
report level for the specified database, but not for other databases
in the instance. If `ALTER SYSTEM` is run, this will turn down the
telemetry report level for the entire instance.  Note that superuser
privileges are necessary to run `ALTER SYSTEM`.

To remove the telemetry job for a database, connect to the database
using `psql` and execute:

```sql
DELETE FROM _timescaledb_config.bgw_job
WHERE job_type = 'telemetry_and_version_check_if_enabled'
```

>:TIP: To ensure that newly created databases do not use telemetry,
>remove the telemetry job from the `template1` database.

After running the desired command, reload the new server configuration in order
for the configuration changes to take effect.

## Enabling Telemetry

If at a later time you wish to re-enable version checking and
telemetry, you need to both turn up the telemetry reporting level and
add a telemetry job.

To turn up the telemetry reporting level, either include the following
line in `postgresql.conf`:

```
timescaledb.telemetry_level=basic
```

or run the following command in `psql`:

```
ALTER [SYSTEM | DATABASE | USER] { *db_name* | *role_specification* } SET timescaledb.telemetry_level=basic
```

To add a telemetry job, you need to insert it into the `bgw_job` table:

```sql
INSERT INTO _timescaledb_config.bgw_job(application_name, job_type, schedule_interval, max_runtime_retries, retry_period) VALUES
('Telemetry Reporter', 'telemetry_and_version_check_if_enabled', INTERVAL '24h', INTERVAL '100s', -1, INTERVAL '1h')
```

>:TIP: To ensure that newly created databases use telemetry, add the a
>telemetry job to the `template1` database.

You can of course pick any interval you like, but these are the
defaults for the telemetry job.

[get_telemetry_report]: /api#get_telemetry_report
