basic-operations.md, before:

# Basic operations

There are a few basic operations that you will be using frequently
with hypertables within TimescaleDB: *inserting data*, *querying
data*, and *indexing data*.  We are assuming here that you have
already generated a hypertable by [creating one][] or [migrating your
data][].

### Inserting and querying
Inserting data into the hypertable is done via normal SQL `INSERT` commands,
e.g. using millisecond timestamps:
```sql
INSERT INTO conditions(time, location, temperature, humidity)
  VALUES (NOW(), 'office', 70.0, 50.0);
```

Similarly, querying data is done via normal SQL `SELECT` commands.
```sql
SELECT * FROM conditions ORDER BY time DESC LIMIT 100;
```

SQL `UPDATE` and `DELETE` commands also work as expected. For more 
examples of using TimescaleDB's standard SQL interface, please see our
API page ([INSERT][], [SELECT][]).

### Indexing data <a id="indexing"></a>

Data is indexed via the SQL `CREATE INDEX` command. For instance,
```sql
CREATE INDEX ON conditions (location, time DESC);
```
This can be done before or after converting the table to a hypertable.

#### Indexing suggestions

Our experience has shown that for time-series data, the most-useful index type
varies depending on your data.

For indexing columns with discrete (limited-cardinality) values (e.g., where you
are most likely to use an "equals" or "not equals" comparator) we suggest using
an index like this (using our hypertable `conditions` for the example):
```sql
CREATE INDEX ON conditions (location, time DESC);
```
For all other types of columns, i.e., columns with continuous values (e.g.,
where you are most likely to use a
"less than" or "greater than" comparator) the index should be in the form:
```sql
CREATE INDEX ON conditions (time DESC, temperature);
```
Having a `time DESC` column specification in the index allows for efficient
queries by column-value and time. For example, the index defined above would
optimize the following query:
```sql
SELECT * FROM conditions WHERE location = 'garage'
  ORDER BY time DESC LIMIT 10
```

For sparse data where a column is often NULL, we suggest adding
a `WHERE column IS NOT NULL` clause to the index (unless you are often
searching for missing data). For example,

```sql
CREATE INDEX ON conditions (time DESC, humidity)
  WHERE humidity IS NOT NULL;
```
this creates a more compact, and thus efficient, index.

>vvv You can only define a UNIQUE index if the initial columns
  is the time column and, if it exists, the partitioning column.

#### Default indexes

By default, TimescaleDB automatically creates a time index on your data when a hypertable is created.

```sql
CREATE INDEX ON conditions (time DESC);
```

Additionally, if the `create_hypertable` command specifies an optional
"space partition" in addition to time (say, the `location` column),
TimescaleDB will automatically create the following index:

```sql
CREATE INDEX ON conditions (location, time DESC);
```

This default behavior can be overridden when executing the
`create_hypertable` command ([see the API docs][create_hypertable]).


**Next**:  If you would like to see what you can do with a full data set,
you can check out
our [basic tutorial][] or play around on your own with our [sample datasets][].


[creating one]: /getting-started/setup/starting-from-scratch
[migrating your data]: /getting-started/setup/migrate-from-postgresql
[INSERT]: /api#insert
[SELECT]: /api#select
[basic tutorial]: /tutorials/tutorial-hello-nyc
[sample datasets]: /tutorials/other-sample-datasets
[create_hypertable]:/api/api-timescaledb#create_hypertable

Commit message:

Move warnings for install to under build header, expand UNIQUE index instructions

basic-operations.md, after:

# Basic operations

There are a few basic operations that you will be using frequently
with hypertables within TimescaleDB: *inserting data*, *querying
data*, and *indexing data*.  We are assuming here that you have
already generated a hypertable by [creating one][] or [migrating your
data][].

### Inserting and querying
Inserting data into the hypertable is done via normal SQL `INSERT` commands,
e.g. using millisecond timestamps:
```sql
INSERT INTO conditions(time, location, temperature, humidity)
  VALUES (NOW(), 'office', 70.0, 50.0);
```

Similarly, querying data is done via normal SQL `SELECT` commands.
```sql
SELECT * FROM conditions ORDER BY time DESC LIMIT 100;
```

SQL `UPDATE` and `DELETE` commands also work as expected. For more 
examples of using TimescaleDB's standard SQL interface, please see our
API page ([INSERT][], [SELECT][]).

### Indexing data <a id="indexing"></a>

Data is indexed via the SQL `CREATE INDEX` command. For instance,
```sql
CREATE INDEX ON conditions (location, time DESC);
```
This can be done before or after converting the table to a hypertable.

#### Indexing suggestions

Our experience has shown that for time-series data, the most-useful index type
varies depending on your data.

For indexing columns with discrete (limited-cardinality) values (e.g., where you
are most likely to use an "equals" or "not equals" comparator) we suggest using
an index like this (using our hypertable `conditions` for the example):
```sql
CREATE INDEX ON conditions (location, time DESC);
```
For all other types of columns, i.e., columns with continuous values (e.g.,
where you are most likely to use a
"less than" or "greater than" comparator) the index should be in the form:
```sql
CREATE INDEX ON conditions (time DESC, temperature);
```
Having a `time DESC` column specification in the index allows for efficient
queries by column-value and time. For example, the index defined above would
optimize the following query:
```sql
SELECT * FROM conditions WHERE location = 'garage'
  ORDER BY time DESC LIMIT 10
```

For sparse data where a column is often NULL, we suggest adding
a `WHERE column IS NOT NULL` clause to the index (unless you are often
searching for missing data). For example,

```sql
CREATE INDEX ON conditions (time DESC, humidity)
  WHERE humidity IS NOT NULL;
```
this creates a more compact, and thus efficient, index.

>ttt To a define an index as UNIQUE, the time column and, if it
exists, the partitioning column **must** be the first (or first two)
columns that comprise the index.  That is, using our running
example, you can define a unique index on just the {time, location} fields,
or to include a third column (say, temperature), the index
must be specified as {time, location, temperature}.  That said, we
find UNIQUE indexes in time-series data to be much less prevalent than
in traditional relational data models.

#### Default indexes

By default, TimescaleDB automatically creates a time index on your data when a hypertable is created.

```sql
CREATE INDEX ON conditions (time DESC);
```

Additionally, if the `create_hypertable` command specifies an optional
"space partition" in addition to time (say, the `location` column),
TimescaleDB will automatically create the following index:

```sql
CREATE INDEX ON conditions (location, time DESC);
```

This default behavior can be overridden when executing the
`create_hypertable` command ([see the API docs][create_hypertable]).


**Next**:  If you would like to see what you can do with a full data set,
you can check out
our [basic tutorial][] or play around on your own with our [sample datasets][].


[creating one]: /getting-started/setup/starting-from-scratch
[migrating your data]: /getting-started/setup/migrate-from-postgresql
[INSERT]: /api#insert
[SELECT]: /api#select
[basic tutorial]: /tutorials/tutorial-hello-nyc
[sample datasets]: /tutorials/other-sample-datasets
[create_hypertable]:/api/api-timescaledb#create_hypertable
