installation-apt.md, before:

## apt Installation <a id="installation-apt"></a>

This will install both TimescaleDB *AND* PostgreSQL 9.6 via `apt`.

#### Prerequisites

- Ubuntu 16.04 or later

#### Build & Install

>vvv If you have another PostgreSQL installation not via `apt`,
this will likely cause problems.
If you wish to maintain your current version of PostgreSQL outside
of `apt`, we recommend installing from source.  Otherwise please be
sure to remove non-`apt` installations before using this method.

```bash
# Add our PPA
sudo add-apt-repository ppa:timescale/timescaledb-ppa
sudo apt-get update
# To install
sudo apt install timescaledb
```

#### Update `postgresql.conf`

You will need to edit your `postgresql.conf` file to include
necessary libraries:
```bash
# Modify postgresql.conf to uncomment this line and add required libraries.
# For example:
shared_preload_libraries = 'timescaledb'
```

>ttt The usual location of `postgres.conf`
is `/etc/postgresql/9.6/main/postgresql.conf` but this may vary
depending on your setup.

To get started you'll now need to restart PostgreSQL and add
a `postgres` superuser (used in the rest of the docs):
```bash
# Restart PostgreSQL instance
sudo service postgresql restart

# Add a superuser postgres:
createuser postgres -s
```

Commit message:

Update install instructions for the latest changes

installation-apt.md, after:

## apt Installation <a id="installation-apt"></a>

This will install both TimescaleDB *AND* PostgreSQL 9.6 via `apt`.

#### Prerequisites

- Ubuntu 16.04 or later

#### Build & Install

>vvv If you have another PostgreSQL installation not via `apt`,
this will likely cause problems.
If you wish to maintain your current version of PostgreSQL outside
of `apt`, we recommend installing from source.  Otherwise please be
sure to remove non-`apt` installations before using this method.

```bash
# Add our PPA
sudo add-apt-repository ppa:timescale/timescaledb-ppa
sudo apt-get update
# To install
sudo apt install timescaledb
```

#### Update `postgresql.conf`

You will need to edit your `postgresql.conf` file to include
necessary libraries:
```bash
# Modify postgresql.conf to uncomment this line and add required libraries.
# For example:
shared_preload_libraries = 'timescaledb'
```

>ttt The usual location of `postgres.conf`
is `/etc/postgresql/9.6/main/postgresql.conf` but this may vary
depending on your setup.

To get started you'll now need to restart PostgreSQL and add
a `postgres` superuser (used in the rest of the docs):
```bash
# Restart PostgreSQL instance
sudo service postgresql restart
```

[Here are some instructions to create the `postgres` superuser][createuser].

[createuser]: http://suite.opengeo.org/docs/latest/dataadmin/pgGettingStarted/firstconnect.html
