using-timescaledb.md, before:

# Using TimescaleDB

TimescaleDB focuses on _simplicity_ for our users and how they can operate and
manage their database, infrastructure, and applications, especially at scale.

First and foremost, we developed TimescaleDB as an extension to PostgreSQL,
rather than building a time-series database from scratch. We also chose not to introduce
our own custom query language. Instead, TimescaleDB fully embraces SQL.

TimescaleDB supports all SQL operations and queries one would expect out of PostgreSQL.
This includes how tables are created, altered and deleted, how schemas are built and indexed,
and how data is inserted and queried. Additionally, TimescaleDB adds necessary and useful
functions for operational ease-of-use and analytical flexibility. In general, if you are
familiar with SQL, TimescaleDB will be familiar to you.

The most important design aspect for providing users with a simple interface to
the database is the TimescaleDB hypertable, explained in our 
[database architecture][architecture] section.

Essentially, hypertables abstract away the complexity of TimescaleDB's automatic
partitioning, so users don't have to worry about managing any of the underlying
chunks individually. Instead, users can focus on developing and interacting with their data as
they would with regular tables within a PostgreSQL database. For advanced users, TimescaleDB is
transparent about the presence of chunks and allows several ways to access them directly.
This section covers all of the operations, and more, for using TimescaleDB.

If you're entirely new to PostgreSQL, here are some resources to help you get started:
- [PostgreSQL Manuals][postgres-manuals]

If you're entirely new to SQL, here are some resources to help you get started:
- [Khan Academy: Intro to SQL][khanacademy]
- [Tutorials Point: SQL Tutorial][tutorialspoint]
- [Codecademy: Learn SQL][codecademy]


[architecture]: /introduction/architecture
[creating-hypertables]: /using-timescaledb/hypertables
[postgres-manuals]: https://www.postgresql.org/docs/manuals/
[tutorialspoint]: https://www.tutorialspoint.com/sql/
[khanacademy]: https://www.khanacademy.org/computing/computer-programming/sql
[codecademy]: https://www.codecademy.com/learn/learn-sql

Commit message:

Add clustering section to Using Timescale doc

using-timescaledb.md, after:

# Using TimescaleDB

TimescaleDB focuses on _simplicity_ for our users and how they can operate and
manage their database, infrastructure, and applications, especially at scale.

First and foremost, we developed TimescaleDB as an extension to PostgreSQL,
rather than building a time-series database from scratch. We also chose not to introduce
our own custom query language. Instead, TimescaleDB fully embraces SQL.

TimescaleDB supports all SQL operations and queries one would expect out of PostgreSQL.
This includes how tables are created, altered and deleted, how schemas are built and indexed,
and how data is inserted and queried. Additionally, TimescaleDB adds necessary and useful
functions for operational ease-of-use and analytical flexibility. In general, if you are
familiar with SQL, TimescaleDB will be familiar to you.

The most important design aspect for providing users with a simple interface to
the database is the TimescaleDB hypertable, explained in our
[database architecture][architecture] section.

Essentially, hypertables abstract away the complexity of TimescaleDB's automatic
partitioning, so users don't have to worry about managing any of the underlying
chunks individually. Instead, users can focus on developing and interacting with their data as
they would with regular tables within a PostgreSQL database. For advanced users, TimescaleDB is
transparent about the presence of chunks and allows several ways to access them directly.
This section covers all of the operations, and more, for using TimescaleDB.

## Clustering [](clustering)

Timescale also supports PostgreSQL's built-in replication functionality for
high availability, redundancy, and sharding read queries. Hypertables are fully
compatible with the PostgreSQL streaming replication protocol, as explained in our
[streaming replication tutorial][replication]. Streaming replication setups can be
further extended to offer high availability and failover using community tools like [patroni][patroni].

Write clustering for multi-node Timescale deployments is under active development, and we're
excited to share our progress with the community soon. That being said, workloads that
may require a multi-node deployment on NoSQL databases can often be handled by
a single Timescale instance with one or more read replicas. The power of using a
relational database to handle production-level time series data is discussed in further
detail in this [blog post][nosql-blog-post].

If you're entirely new to PostgreSQL, here are some resources to help you get started:
- [PostgreSQL Manuals][postgres-manuals]

If you're entirely new to SQL, here are some resources to help you get started:
- [Khan Academy: Intro to SQL][khanacademy]
- [Tutorials Point: SQL Tutorial][tutorialspoint]
- [Codecademy: Learn SQL][codecademy]


[architecture]: /introduction/architecture
[replication]: /replication
[patroni]: https://github.com/zalando/patroni
[nosql-blog-post]: https://blog.timescale.com/time-series-data-why-and-how-to-use-a-relational-database-instead-of-nosql-d0cd6975e87c
[creating-hypertables]: /using-timescaledb/hypertables
[postgres-manuals]: https://www.postgresql.org/docs/manuals/
[tutorialspoint]: https://www.tutorialspoint.com/sql/
[khanacademy]: https://www.khanacademy.org/computing/computer-programming/sql
[codecademy]: https://www.codecademy.com/learn/learn-sql
