getting-started/creating-hypertables.md, before:

# Creating Hypertables

The primary point of interaction with your data is a hypertable,
the abstraction of a single continuous table across all space and time intervals, such that one can query it via vanilla SQL.

>:TIP: First make sure that you have properly [installed][] **AND [setup][]** your Timescale database within your PostgreSQL instance.

### Creating a (Hyper)table [](create-hypertable)
To create a hypertable, you start with a regular SQL table, and then convert
it into a hypertable via the function `create_hypertable` ([API reference][]).

The following example creates a hypertable for tracking
temperature and humidity across a collection of devices over time.

```sql
-- We start by creating a regular SQL table

CREATE TABLE conditions (
  time        TIMESTAMPTZ       NOT NULL,
  location    TEXT              NOT NULL,
  temperature DOUBLE PRECISION  NULL,
  humidity    DOUBLE PRECISION  NULL
);
```

Next, transform it into a hypertable with `create_hypertable`:

```sql
-- This creates a hypertable that is partitioned by time
--   using the values in the `time` column.

SELECT create_hypertable('conditions', 'time');

-- OR you can additionally partition the data on another
--   dimension (what we call 'space partitioning').
-- E.g., to partition `location` into 4 partitions:

SELECT create_hypertable('conditions', 'time', 'location', 4);
```

>:TIP: The 'time' column used in the `create_hypertable` function supports
timestamp, date, or integer types, so you can use a parameter that is not
explicitly time-based, as long as it can increment.  For example, a
monotonically increasing id would work. You must specify a chunk time interval
when creating a hypertable if you use a monotonically increasing id.  

### Inserting & Querying [](inserting-querying)
Inserting data into the hypertable is done via normal SQL `INSERT` commands,
e.g. using millisecond timestamps:
```sql
INSERT INTO conditions(time, location, temperature, humidity)
  VALUES (NOW(), 'office', 70.0, 50.0);
```

Similarly, querying data is done via normal SQL `SELECT` commands.
```sql
SELECT * FROM conditions ORDER BY time DESC LIMIT 100;
```

SQL `UPDATE` and `DELETE` commands also work as expected. For more
examples of using TimescaleDB's standard SQL interface, please see our
[use pages][].

[installed]: /getting-started/installation
[setup]: /getting-started/setup
[API Reference]: /api#create_hypertable
[use pages]: /using-timescaledb

Commit message:

Reduce the prominence of space partitioning

getting-started/creating-hypertables.md, after:

# Creating Hypertables

The primary point of interaction with your data is a hypertable,
the abstraction of a single continuous table across all space and time intervals, such that one can query it via vanilla SQL.

>:TIP: First make sure that you have properly [installed][] **AND [setup][]** your Timescale database within your PostgreSQL instance.

### Creating a (Hyper)table [](create-hypertable)
To create a hypertable, you start with a regular SQL table, and then convert
it into a hypertable via the function `create_hypertable` ([API reference][]).

The following example creates a hypertable for tracking
temperature and humidity across a collection of devices over time.

```sql
-- We start by creating a regular SQL table

CREATE TABLE conditions (
  time        TIMESTAMPTZ       NOT NULL,
  location    TEXT              NOT NULL,
  temperature DOUBLE PRECISION  NULL,
  humidity    DOUBLE PRECISION  NULL
);
```

Next, transform it into a hypertable with `create_hypertable`:

```sql
-- This creates a hypertable that is partitioned by time
--   using the values in the `time` column.

SELECT create_hypertable('conditions', 'time');
```

You can additionally partition data on another dimension (what we call
'space partitioning'). However, we typically do not recommend users to start with
space partitioning turned on, and it should only be utilized in very specific
scenarios. You can read more about our suggestions in our [best practices][]
documentation.

```sql
-- This creates a hypertable partitioned on both time and `location`. In this example,
-- the hypertable will partition `location` into 4 partitions.
 SELECT create_hypertable('conditions', 'time', 'location', 4);
```

>:TIP: The 'time' column used in the `create_hypertable` function supports
timestamp, date, or integer types, so you can use a parameter that is not
explicitly time-based, as long as it can increment.  For example, a
monotonically increasing id would work. You must specify a chunk time interval
when creating a hypertable if you use a monotonically increasing id.  

### Inserting & Querying [](inserting-querying)
Inserting data into the hypertable is done via normal SQL `INSERT` commands,
e.g. using millisecond timestamps:
```sql
INSERT INTO conditions(time, location, temperature, humidity)
  VALUES (NOW(), 'office', 70.0, 50.0);
```

Similarly, querying data is done via normal SQL `SELECT` commands.
```sql
SELECT * FROM conditions ORDER BY time DESC LIMIT 100;
```

SQL `UPDATE` and `DELETE` commands also work as expected. For more
examples of using TimescaleDB's standard SQL interface, please see our
[use pages][].

[installed]: /getting-started/installation
[setup]: /getting-started/setup
[API Reference]: /api#create_hypertable
[use pages]: /using-timescaledb
[best practices]: /using-timescaledb/hypertables#best-practices
