tutorials/tutorial-setting-up-timescale-cloud-endpoint-for-prometheus.md, before:

# Tutorial: How to Set Up a Prometheus Endpoint for a Timescale Cloud Database

You can get more insights into the performance of your Timescale Cloud 
database by monitoring it using [Prometheus][get-prometheus], a popular 
open-source metrics-based systems monitoring solution. This tutorial will 
take you through setting up a Prometheus endpoint for a database running 
in [Timescale Cloud][timescale-cloud]. To create a monitoring system to ingest and analyze 
Prometheus metrics from your Timescale Cloud instance, see 
this [tutorial][monitoring-setup-tutorial]

This will expose metrics from the [node_exporter][node-exporter-metrics] as well 
as [pg_stats][pg-stats-metrics] metrics.

### Prerequisites
In order to proceed with this tutorial, you will need a Timescale Cloud database. 
To create one, see these instructions for how to 
[get started with Timescale Cloud][timescale-cloud-get-started]

### Step 1: Enable Prometheus Service Integration

In the navigation bar, select 'Service Integrations'. Navigate to the service 
integrations, pictured below.  

<img class="main-content__illustration" src="https://s3.amazonaws.com/docs.iobeam.com/images/Prometheus_service_integration_0.png" alt="Service Integrations Menu Option"/>

This will present you with the option to add a Prometheus integration point. 
Select the plus icon to add a new endpoint and give it a name of your choice. 
We’ve named ours `endpoint_dev`.

<img class="main-content__illustration" src="https://s3.amazonaws.com/docs.iobeam.com/images/Prometheus_service_integration_1.png" alt="Create a Prometheus endpoint on Timescale Cloud"/>

Furthermore, notice that you are given basic authentication information and a port number 
in order to access the service. This will be used when setting up your Prometheus
installation, in the `prometheus.yml` configuration file. This will enable you to make 
this Timescale Cloud endpoint a target for Prometheus to scrape.

Here’s a sample configuration file you can use when you setup your Prometheus 
installation, substituting the target port, IP address, username, and password 
for those of your Timescale Cloud instance:

```yaml
# prometheus.yml for monitoring a Timescale Cloud instance
global:
 scrape_interval:     10s
 evaluation_interval: 10s
scrape_configs:
 - job_name: prometheus
   scheme: https
   static_configs:
     - targets: ['{TARGET_IP}:{TARGET_PORT}']
   tls_config:
     insecure_skip_verify: true
   basic_auth:
     username: {ENDPOINT_USERNAME}
     password: {ENDPOINT_PASSWORD}
remote_write:
 - url: "http://{ADAPTER_IP}:9201/write"
remote_read:
 - url: "http://{ADAPTER_IP}:9201/read"
```

### Step 2: Associate Prometheus Endpoint with Managed Service

Next, we want to associate our Prometheus endpoint with our Timescale 
Cloud service.  Using the navigation menu, select the service we want to 
monitor and click the 'Overview' tab.

Navigate down to the 'Service Integrations' section and click the 'Manage Integrations' button.

<img class="main-content__illustration" src="https://assets.iobeam.com/images/docs/screenshots-for-prometheus-endpoint-tutorial/Prometheus_service_integrations_4.png" alt="Manage Service integrations on your managed service"/>

Find the Prometheus integration option and select 'Use Prometheus'.

<img class="main-content__illustration" src="https://assets.iobeam.com/images/docs/screenshots-for-prometheus-endpoint-tutorial/Prometheus_service_integration_2.png" alt="Select Prometheus integration to integrate with"/>

Next, select the endpoint name you created in Step 1 as the endpoint you’d like to use 
with this service and then click the 'Enable' button. It’s possible to use the same 
endpoint for multiple services or a separate one for services you’d like to keep apart.

<img class="main-content__illustration" src="https://assets.iobeam.com/images/docs/screenshots-for-prometheus-endpoint-tutorial/Prometheus_service_integration_3.png" alt="Select name of Prometheus endpoint to integrate with"/>

To check if this was successful, navigate back to the Service Integrations section of your 
managed service, and check if that “Active” flag appears, along with the name of the endpoint 
you associated the service with.

<img class="main-content__illustration" src="https://assets.iobeam.com/images/docs/screenshots-for-prometheus-endpoint-tutorial/Prometheus_service_integration_5.png" alt="Success! Active prometheus endpoint with name"/>

Congratulations, you have successfully set up a Prometheus endpoint on your managed 
service on Timescale Cloud!

### Next Steps

Next, [create a monitoring system][monitoring-setup-tutorial] using Timescale, 
Grafana, and Prometheus to ingest and analyze Prometheus metrics from your 
Timescale Cloud instance.


[timescale-cloud]: https://www.timescale.com/products
[timescale-cloud-install]: /getting-started/explore-cloud
[get-prometheus]: https://prometheus.io
[timescale-cloud-get-started]: /getting-started/exploring-cloud
[monitoring-setup-tutorial]: /tutorials/tutorial-setup-timescale-prometheus
[pg-stats-metrics]: https://www.postgresql.org/docs/current/monitoring-stats.html
[node-exporter-metrics]: https://github.com/prometheus/node_exporter

Commit message:

Sunset pg_prometheus and adapter, add references to Promscale

tutorials/tutorial-setting-up-timescale-cloud-endpoint-for-prometheus.md, after:

# Tutorial: How to Set Up a Prometheus Endpoint for a Timescale Cloud Database

You can get more insights into the performance of your Timescale Cloud 
database by monitoring it using [Prometheus][get-prometheus], a popular 
open-source metrics-based systems monitoring solution. This tutorial will 
take you through setting up a Prometheus endpoint for a database running 
in [Timescale Cloud][timescale-cloud]. To create a monitoring system to ingest and analyze 
Prometheus metrics from your Timescale Cloud instance, you can use [Promscale][promscale]!

This will expose metrics from the [node_exporter][node-exporter-metrics] as well 
as [pg_stats][pg-stats-metrics] metrics.

### Prerequisites
In order to proceed with this tutorial, you will need a Timescale Cloud database. 
To create one, see these instructions for how to 
[get started with Timescale Cloud][timescale-cloud-get-started]

### Step 1: Enable Prometheus Service Integration

In the navigation bar, select 'Service Integrations'. Navigate to the service 
integrations, pictured below.  

<img class="main-content__illustration" src="https://s3.amazonaws.com/docs.iobeam.com/images/Prometheus_service_integration_0.png" alt="Service Integrations Menu Option"/>

This will present you with the option to add a Prometheus integration point. 
Select the plus icon to add a new endpoint and give it a name of your choice. 
We’ve named ours `endpoint_dev`.

<img class="main-content__illustration" src="https://s3.amazonaws.com/docs.iobeam.com/images/Prometheus_service_integration_1.png" alt="Create a Prometheus endpoint on Timescale Cloud"/>

Furthermore, notice that you are given basic authentication information and a port number 
in order to access the service. This will be used when setting up your Prometheus
installation, in the `prometheus.yml` configuration file. This will enable you to make 
this Timescale Cloud endpoint a target for Prometheus to scrape.

Here’s a sample configuration file you can use when you setup your Prometheus 
installation, substituting the target port, IP address, username, and password 
for those of your Timescale Cloud instance:

```yaml
# prometheus.yml for monitoring a Timescale Cloud instance
global:
 scrape_interval:     10s
 evaluation_interval: 10s
scrape_configs:
 - job_name: prometheus
   scheme: https
   static_configs:
     - targets: ['{TARGET_IP}:{TARGET_PORT}']
   tls_config:
     insecure_skip_verify: true
   basic_auth:
     username: {ENDPOINT_USERNAME}
     password: {ENDPOINT_PASSWORD}
remote_write:
 - url: "http://{ADAPTER_IP}:9201/write"
remote_read:
 - url: "http://{ADAPTER_IP}:9201/read"
```

### Step 2: Associate Prometheus Endpoint with Managed Service

Next, we want to associate our Prometheus endpoint with our Timescale 
Cloud service.  Using the navigation menu, select the service we want to 
monitor and click the 'Overview' tab.

Navigate down to the 'Service Integrations' section and click the 'Manage Integrations' button.

<img class="main-content__illustration" src="https://assets.iobeam.com/images/docs/screenshots-for-prometheus-endpoint-tutorial/Prometheus_service_integrations_4.png" alt="Manage Service integrations on your managed service"/>

Find the Prometheus integration option and select 'Use Prometheus'.

<img class="main-content__illustration" src="https://assets.iobeam.com/images/docs/screenshots-for-prometheus-endpoint-tutorial/Prometheus_service_integration_2.png" alt="Select Prometheus integration to integrate with"/>

Next, select the endpoint name you created in Step 1 as the endpoint you’d like to use 
with this service and then click the 'Enable' button. It’s possible to use the same 
endpoint for multiple services or a separate one for services you’d like to keep apart.

<img class="main-content__illustration" src="https://assets.iobeam.com/images/docs/screenshots-for-prometheus-endpoint-tutorial/Prometheus_service_integration_3.png" alt="Select name of Prometheus endpoint to integrate with"/>

To check if this was successful, navigate back to the Service Integrations section of your 
managed service, and check if that “Active” flag appears, along with the name of the endpoint 
you associated the service with.

<img class="main-content__illustration" src="https://assets.iobeam.com/images/docs/screenshots-for-prometheus-endpoint-tutorial/Prometheus_service_integration_5.png" alt="Success! Active prometheus endpoint with name"/>

Congratulations, you have successfully set up a Prometheus endpoint on your managed 
service on Timescale Cloud!

### Next Steps

Next, [use Promscale][promscale] with Timescale, Grafana, and Prometheus to ingest 
and analyze Prometheus metrics from your Timescale Cloud instance.


[timescale-cloud]: https://www.timescale.com/products
[timescale-cloud-install]: /getting-started/explore-cloud
[get-prometheus]: https://prometheus.io
[timescale-cloud-get-started]: /getting-started/exploring-cloud
[pg-stats-metrics]: https://www.postgresql.org/docs/current/monitoring-stats.html
[promscale]: https://github.com/timescale/timescale-prometheus
[node-exporter-metrics]: https://github.com/prometheus/node_exporter
