tutorials/tutorial-setup-timescale-prometheus.md, before:

# Sunset Notice

>:WARNING: This page contains a tutorial for a deprecated method of storing Prometheus data in
> TimescaleDB. We are now in the process of re-designing our 
> prometheus-timescaledb integration.
> 
> If you are interested in learning more about why we decided to re-design
> our integration, check out our [design doc][design-doc] or our 
> [github project][github-project].

# Tutorial: Use TimescaleDB to Store Prometheus Metrics Data

[Prometheus][get-prometheus] is the leading open-source systems monitoring 
solution. With Prometheus, you can obtain metrics about your cloud 
infrastructure. [Grafana][get-grafana] is an open-source visualization engine, 
that enables you to gain powerful insight into your infrastructure metrics. 
[TimescaleDB][timescale-cloud] is a time-series database, providing the 
tools and services you need to store long-term infrastructure metrics and 
gain insight for cost-management, capacity planning, and root-cause analysis.

Together, TimescaleDB, Prometheus, and Grafana are an ideal open-source analytics 
stack.

This tutorial comes in two parts. In this first part, you’ll learn how to 
set up TimescaleDB and Prometheus. In the second part, you’ll learn how 
to [use your metrics data to answer questions][use-timescale-prometheus-grafana] 
about how your infrastructure is performing. The second part of this tutorial 
also includes a sample dataset in case you’d prefer to evaluate TimescaleDB 
without setting up a full monitoring harness.

### Why use a long-term store for Prometheus?

Prometheus is an open-source systems monitoring and alerting toolkit that can 
be used to easily and cost-effectively monitor infrastructure and applications. 
You might be already familiar with it, especially if you use Kubernetes. 
Prometheus’ greatest advantage is its unapologetic approach to solving monitoring 
in a simple and straightforward way. Its philosophy is to do one thing, and do 
it well. 

However, Prometheus is limited by design. As the Prometheus documentation says:

> “[Prometheus] is not arbitrarily scalable or durable in the face of disk or node outages and should thus be treated as more of an ephemeral sliding window of recent data.”

Having both compute and data storage on one node keeps Prometheus simple and 
easy to operate. However, what this means is that Prometheus data can only 
stick around for so long, and is difficult to manage operationally, as there’s 
no replication or high-availability.

For this reason, fast, efficient, and cost-effective time-series databases 
like TimescaleDB are an essential component of a comprehensive monitoring stack.

Storing long-term metrics data gives you significant advantages over only 
examining real-time or recent data:

- **Manage costs**. With insight into past and present metrics, you can determine 
the cost of doing business for various scenarios. How much does it cost to run 
your site on Black Friday? How much does it cost to add new sensors to your IoT 
infrastructure?
- **Plan capacity**. You can understand how much infrastructure you will require 
to support various use cases.
- **Identify root causes**. Having long-term views of metrics enables you to 
look for correlations when outages, degradation, or other periodic mishaps occur 
in your infrastructure.

### Pre-requisites

Often, you want to separate the environments your applications and your monitoring 
run in. This tutorial will cover how to set up a monitoring system using TimescaleDB, 
Prometheus, and Grafana running in Docker containers on an Amazon Web Services 
EC2 instance. Before we setup the monitoring environment, you’ll need:

- An [AWS account][aws-signup]
- A new or existing Amazon EC2 instance. We’ll use the `t2.large` instance 
type, but you can use whatever is within your budget, including the free-tier 
eligible instances. Ensure that you store your `.pem` key safely. In this tutorial, 
we’ll use the Ubuntu Server 18.04 LTS AMI:

<img class="main-content__illustration" src="https://s3.amazonaws.com/docs.iobeam.com/images/AWS_Ubuntu_DIYMonitoring.png" alt="Ubuntu AMI used for Monitoring setup"/>

- An SSH connection to your Amazon EC2 instance. Learn how to set up 
one [here][ssl-setup-instructions]. Remember to set the correct permissions 
on your key file, you can learn more [here][ssl-setup-key-instructions] 
- Docker installed on Ubuntu. [Follow the instructions][docker-ubuntu] to install.
- An SFTP client - we’ll use [FileZilla][filezilla]. See this 
[StackOverflow post][stack-overflow-filezilla] for help on how to connect to your 
Amazon EC2 instance running Ubuntu using FileZilla. You’ll need the Public DNS 
of the server, found on the Amazon EC2 Description page. The `username` will be 
'ubuntu' and the password will be blank.
- A Prometheus metrics endpoint, for Prometheus to scrape, on the infrastructure 
you are interested in monitoring. If you are using Timescale Cloud as your 
database, [follow the instructions to set up an endpoint for Prometheus][timescale-cloud-prometheus-endpoint]. 
See here for a [list of Prometheus exporters][prometheus-exporters] for various 
infrastructure setups. A popular one is the [Node/system metrics exporter][prometheus-node-exporter], 
which sends hardware and OS metrics exposed by \*NIX kernels.

If you’d prefer not to use AWS, the instructions below will still work for machines 
running Ubuntu and Docker. The instructions can also be used if you only have a Docker 
environment set up, though they may require additional steps.

### Step 1: Setup TimescaleDB with the PostgreSQL Prometheus extension

Now we will configure TimescaleDB with the PostgreSQL Prometheus extension, 
known as [pg_prometheus][pg-prometheus-extension]. From the command line, run the following:

```bash
docker run --name pg_prometheus -e POSTGRES_PASSWORD=secret -d -p 5432:5432 timescale/pg_prometheus:latest-pg11  postgres -csynchronous_commit=off
```

This command pulls a new instance of the latest release of TimescaleDB, with 
the [pg_prometheus extension][pg-prometheus-extension] installed and uses 
the `--name` flag to name it `pg_prometheus`. This will automatically create 
tables, hypertables, and schema to store and query metrics from Prometheus in 
an optimized way.

We also use the the `-e` flag to set the password to our TimescaleDB instance 
to be `secret`, but please change it and/or use the relevant secret management 
and password methods you prefer. We also use the default PostgreSQL port of 
`5432`, but you can change it if you have other things running on that port.

>:TIP: If you’re new to TimescaleDB, the [Hello! Timescale tutorial][hello-timescale] will give you the base knowledge you need to proceed.

### Step 2: Set up the Prometheus PostgreSQL adapter

Next, let’s set up the Prometheus PostgreSQL adapter, which acts as a translation 
proxy that Prometheus uses for reading and writing data into PostgreSQL/TimescaleDB. 
The adapter has a dependency on the pg_prometheus PostgreSQL extension, which comes 
pre-installed on the Timescale instance we installed in Step 1.

Here’s how the adapter works: All the metrics that are recorded into Prometheus are 
first written to the local node and then written to TimescaleDB. This means that all 
of your metrics are immediately backed up, so that any disk failure on a Prometheus 
node will be less painful.

```bash
docker run --name prometheus_postgresql_adapter -d -p 9201:9201 timescale/prometheus-postgresql-adapter:latest -pg-host={IP_OF_MACHINE} -pg-password=secret -pg-port=5432
```

This command pulls the latest release of the TimescaleDB 
[remote storage adapter][timescale-remote-storage-adapter] to use PostgreSQL as a 
remote read and write destination for Prometheus metrics. 

Insert the internal IP address of the machine your Timescale container is running on. 
You can obtain this on any Amazon EC2 instance by running the following command:

```bash
curl http://checkip.amazonaws.com
```

>:WARNING: Be sure to use the same password and port number as we did in step 1 for the TimescaleDB instance.

Note that we spin up the adapter on port `9201`, but you can change it if you have other 
things running on that port. 

To check if this is working, login to your database using `psql` with the following 
command:

```bash
docker exec -it pg_prometheus psql -U postgres
```

Check that the extensions include both `pg_prometheus` and `timescaledb` by using the 
`\dx` command in `psql`:

```sql
                                       List of installed extensions
     Name      | Version |   Schema   |                            Description                            
---------------+---------+------------+-------------------------------------------------------------------
 pg_prometheus | 0.2.2   | public     | Prometheus metrics for PostgreSQL
 plpgsql       | 1.0     | pg_catalog | PL/pgSQL procedural language
 timescaledb   | 1.6.0   | public     | Enables scalable inserts and complex queries for time-series data
(3 rows)
```

Also ensure that your tables include `metrics_copy`, `metrics_values`, and `metrics_labels` 
by running the `\dt` command in `psql`:

```bash
             List of relations
 Schema |      Name      | Type  |  Owner   
--------+----------------+-------+----------
 public | metrics_copy   | table | postgres
 public | metrics_labels | table | postgres
 public | metrics_values | table | postgres
(3 rows)

```

### Step 3: Setup Prometheus

Now let’s set up Prometheus. Begin by configuring the `prometheus.yml` file to tell 
Prometheus to use our TimescaleDB instance with `pg_prometheus` as a remote read and 
write for Prometheus metrics. This ensures that all the metrics that are recorded into 
Prometheus are first written to the local node and then written to TimescaleDB. This 
means that all of your metrics are immediately backed up, so that any disk failure on a 
Prometheus node will be less painful.

To do this, add the following lines at the end of your prometheus configuration file, 
assuming you’ve set up the Prometheus PostgreSQL adapter from step 2 at port `9201`:

```yaml
 remote_write:
 - url: "http://{ADAPTER_IP}:9201/write"
remote_read:
 - url: "http://{ADAPTER_IP}:9201/read"
```

If you don’t have a running instance of Prometheus or a `prometheus.yml` configuration 
file, here’s a sample one for the node exporter, running at port `9100`:

```yaml
#prometheus.yml for node exporter job
global:
 scrape_interval:     10s
 evaluation_interval: 10s
scrape_configs:
 - job_name: prometheus
   static_configs:
     - targets: ['node_exporter:9100']
remote_write:
 - url: "http://{ADAPTER_IP}:9201/write"
remote_read:
 - url: "http://{ADAPTER_IP}:9201/read"
```

If you’re monitoring a Timescale Cloud database instance per 
this [tutorial][timescale-cloud-prometheus-endpoint], you can use the following 
sample configuration file, taking care to replace `{TARGET_IP}` with the IP 
address of your Timescale cloud database and `{TARGET_PORT}` with the port that 
the endpoint is running on, as well as your `username` and `password` to authenticate 
your connection to that endpoint.

```yaml
#prometheus.yml for monitoring a timescale cloud instance
global:
 scrape_interval:     10s
 evaluation_interval: 10s
scrape_configs:
 - job_name: prometheus
   scheme: https
   static_configs:
     - targets: ['{TARGET_IP}:{TARGET_PORT}']
   tls_config:
     insecure_skip_verify: true
   basic_auth:
     username: {ENDPOINT_USERNAME}
     password: {ENDPOINT_PASSWORD}
remote_write:
 - url: "http://{ADAPTER_IP}:9201/write"
remote_read:
 - url: "http://{ADAPTER_IP}:9201/read"
```

Now that your Prometheus configuration file has been set, we will use 
FileZilla (or similar tool) to transfer your file to your Amazon EC2 instance. 
Finally, we can run the command below in order to start up Prometheus in a container 
using the configs specified in `prometheus.yml`:

```bash
sudo docker run -p 9090:9090 -v prometheus.yml:/etc/prometheus/prometheus.yml prom/prometheus
```

To check that Prometheus metrics are indeed being stored in TimescaleDB, run the 
following command in `psql` when connected to your TimescaleDB instance and check 
that you see rows in the `metrics_values` table:

```sql
SELECT * FROM metrics_values LIMIT 5;
```

Your output should look like this:

```bash
            time            | value | labels_id 
----------------------------+-------+-----------
 2020-03-17 11:59:57.937+00 |     0 |         1
 2020-03-17 11:59:47.937+00 |     0 |         1
 2020-03-17 11:59:37.937+00 |     0 |         1
 2020-03-17 11:59:27.937+00 |     0 |         1
 2020-03-17 11:59:17.937+00 |     0 |         1
(5 rows)
```

### Step 4: Setup Grafana

Lastly, you will need to set up a Grafana instance. You have two options here. 
First, if you’re using Timescale Cloud, you could setup a Grafana instance from 
the **Create Service** flow. Our [Grafana tutorial][grafana-tutorial] has further 
instructions on how to login to your Grafana instance and how to setup Grafana 
and TimescaleDB.

<img class="main-content__illustration" src="https://assets.iobeam.com/images/docs/screenshots-for-grafana-tutorial/create_service.png" alt="Create a new Grafana service"/>

Second, you could run Grafana in a docker container on your EC2 instance. To do 
this, run:

```bash
sudo docker run -d -p 3000:3000 grafana/grafana
```

If you run open-source Grafana in a Docker container, your default username 
and password are `admin` and `admin`. You can learn more about how to configure 
that [in the Grafana docs][grafana-security-docs] and 
this [StackOverflow post][grafana-stack-overflow].

>:TIP: Alternatively, you can set up [Grafana Cloud][grafana-cloud] and follow the rest of the instructions below. Note that Grafana Cloud is more feature-rich than the open source version of Grafana included with Timescale Cloud, but does require a paid subscription from Grafana.

To complete the setup, you need to connect your TimescaleDB instance as a 
datasource to power dashboards in Grafana. To do this, select new `PostgreSQL` 
data source and fill out the credentials as follows:

- Your host will be the public DNS of your AWS EC2 instance, with the port number 
being the port number of your Timescale instance, which we setup in step 1 as the 
default PostgreSQL port of `5432`. 
- Your database name is `postgres`
- Your user is `postgres` - you can create a new user with more limited permissions 
if you don’t want to use the `postgres` superuser.
- Password would be the password for your Timescale instance, configured in Step 1.
- SSL mode will be `disable`
- Version: 11
- TimescaleDB selected - this tells Grafana you’re using TimescaleDB and will allow 
you to use Timescale specific functions for analysis and creating visualizations.

### Completing setup
Once these four steps are completed, you will have a working instance of Prometheus 
collecting metrics from your cloud infrastructure, a working instance of TimescaleDB 
storing those metrics, with the help of the Prometheus-PostgreSQL Adapter, and a working 
instance of Grafana, with TimescaleDB as a datasource, ready to build visualizations on 
the data.

[The second part][use-timescale-prometheus-grafana] of this tutorial provides instructions 
on how to optimize TimescaleDB for storing and analyzing Prometheus metrics, as well as 
how to create sample dashboards using TimescaleDB and Grafana.

[design-doc]: https://tsdb.co/prom-design-doc
[github-project]: https://github.com/timescale/timescale-prometheus 
[get-prometheus]: https://prometheus.io
[get-grafana]: http://grafana.com
[sample-database]: https://s3.amazonaws.com/docs.iobeam.com/examples/prometheus-grafana/prom_data_csvs.zip
[timescale-cloud]: https://www.timescale.com/products
[timescale-cloud-install]: /getting-started/exploring-cloud
[timescale-cloud-prometheus-endpoint]: /tutorials/tutorial-setting-up-timescale-cloud-endpoint-for-prometheus
[timescaledb-install]: /getting-started/installation
[grafana-cloud]: https://grafana.com/get
[grafana-tutorial]: /tutorials/tutorial-grafana
[grafana-security-docs]: https://grafana.com/docs/grafana/latest/installation/configuration/#security
[grafana-stack-overflow]: https://stackoverflow.com/questions/54039604/what-is-the-default-username-and-password-for-grafana-login-page
[hello-timescale]: /tutorials/tutorial-hello-timescale
[postgres-docs]: https://www.postgresql.org/docs/
[continuous-aggregates]: /tutorials/continuous-aggs-tutorial
[compression]: /using-timescaledb/compression
[data-retention]: /using-timescaledb/data-retention
[setup-prometheus]: /tutorials/setup-timescale-prometheus
[use-timescale-prometheus-grafana]: /tutorials/tutorial-use-timescale-prometheus-grafana
[aws-signup]: https://aws.amazon.com
[ssl-setup-instructions]: https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AWSEC2/latest/UserGuide/AccessingInstancesLinux.html
[ssl-setup-key-instructions]: https://stackoverflow.com/questions/9270734/ssh-permissions-are-too-open-error
[pg-prometheus-extension]: https://github.com/timescale/pg_prometheus
[timescale-remote-storage-adapter]: https://github.com/timescale/prometheus-postgresql-adapter
[docker-ubuntu]: https://www.digitalocean.com/community/tutorials/how-to-install-and-use-docker-on-ubuntu-18-04
[filezilla]: https://www.filezilla.org
[stack-overflow-filezilla]: https://stackoverflow.com/questions/16744863/connect-to-amazon-ec2-file-directory-using-filezilla-and-sftp
[prometheus-exporters]: https://prometheus.io/docs/instrumenting/exporters/
[prometheus-node-exporter]: https://github.com/prometheus/node_exporter
[sample-dashboards]: https://github.com/timescale/examples/tree/master/prometheus-grafana

Commit message:

Sunset pg_prometheus and adapter, add references to Promscale

tutorials/tutorial-setup-timescale-prometheus.md, after:

# Sunset Notice

>:WARNING: This page contains a tutorial for a deprecated method of storing Prometheus data in
> TimescaleDB. It has been replaced by [Promscale][promscale-blog]. We are in the process of 
> adding tutorials to our docs, in the meantime, use our [README][promscale-readme].
> 
> If you are interested in learning more about why we decided to re-design
> our integration, check out our [design doc][design-doc] or our 
> [github project][promscale-github].

# Tutorial: Use TimescaleDB to Store Prometheus Metrics Data

[Prometheus][get-prometheus] is the leading open-source systems monitoring 
solution. With Prometheus, you can obtain metrics about your cloud 
infrastructure. [Grafana][get-grafana] is an open-source visualization engine, 
that enables you to gain powerful insight into your infrastructure metrics. 
[TimescaleDB][timescale-cloud] is a time-series database, providing the 
tools and services you need to store long-term infrastructure metrics and 
gain insight for cost-management, capacity planning, and root-cause analysis.

Together, TimescaleDB, Prometheus, and Grafana are an ideal open-source analytics 
stack.

This tutorial comes in two parts. In this first part, you’ll learn how to 
set up TimescaleDB and Prometheus. In the second part, you’ll learn how 
to [use your metrics data to answer questions][use-timescale-prometheus-grafana] 
about how your infrastructure is performing. The second part of this tutorial 
also includes a sample dataset in case you’d prefer to evaluate TimescaleDB 
without setting up a full monitoring harness.

### Why use a long-term store for Prometheus?

Prometheus is an open-source systems monitoring and alerting toolkit that can 
be used to easily and cost-effectively monitor infrastructure and applications. 
You might be already familiar with it, especially if you use Kubernetes. 
Prometheus’ greatest advantage is its unapologetic approach to solving monitoring 
in a simple and straightforward way. Its philosophy is to do one thing, and do 
it well. 

However, Prometheus is limited by design. As the Prometheus documentation says:

> “[Prometheus] is not arbitrarily scalable or durable in the face of disk or node outages and should thus be treated as more of an ephemeral sliding window of recent data.”

Having both compute and data storage on one node keeps Prometheus simple and 
easy to operate. However, what this means is that Prometheus data can only 
stick around for so long, and is difficult to manage operationally, as there’s 
no replication or high-availability.

For this reason, fast, efficient, and cost-effective time-series databases 
like TimescaleDB are an essential component of a comprehensive monitoring stack.

Storing long-term metrics data gives you significant advantages over only 
examining real-time or recent data:

- **Manage costs**. With insight into past and present metrics, you can determine 
the cost of doing business for various scenarios. How much does it cost to run 
your site on Black Friday? How much does it cost to add new sensors to your IoT 
infrastructure?
- **Plan capacity**. You can understand how much infrastructure you will require 
to support various use cases.
- **Identify root causes**. Having long-term views of metrics enables you to 
look for correlations when outages, degradation, or other periodic mishaps occur 
in your infrastructure.

### Pre-requisites

Often, you want to separate the environments your applications and your monitoring 
run in. This tutorial will cover how to set up a monitoring system using TimescaleDB, 
Prometheus, and Grafana running in Docker containers on an Amazon Web Services 
EC2 instance. Before we setup the monitoring environment, you’ll need:

- An [AWS account][aws-signup]
- A new or existing Amazon EC2 instance. We’ll use the `t2.large` instance 
type, but you can use whatever is within your budget, including the free-tier 
eligible instances. Ensure that you store your `.pem` key safely. In this tutorial, 
we’ll use the Ubuntu Server 18.04 LTS AMI:

<img class="main-content__illustration" src="https://s3.amazonaws.com/docs.iobeam.com/images/AWS_Ubuntu_DIYMonitoring.png" alt="Ubuntu AMI used for Monitoring setup"/>

- An SSH connection to your Amazon EC2 instance. Learn how to set up 
one [here][ssl-setup-instructions]. Remember to set the correct permissions 
on your key file, you can learn more [here][ssl-setup-key-instructions] 
- Docker installed on Ubuntu. [Follow the instructions][docker-ubuntu] to install.
- An SFTP client - we’ll use [FileZilla][filezilla]. See this 
[StackOverflow post][stack-overflow-filezilla] for help on how to connect to your 
Amazon EC2 instance running Ubuntu using FileZilla. You’ll need the Public DNS 
of the server, found on the Amazon EC2 Description page. The `username` will be 
'ubuntu' and the password will be blank.
- A Prometheus metrics endpoint, for Prometheus to scrape, on the infrastructure 
you are interested in monitoring. If you are using Timescale Cloud as your 
database, [follow the instructions to set up an endpoint for Prometheus][timescale-cloud-prometheus-endpoint]. 
See here for a [list of Prometheus exporters][prometheus-exporters] for various 
infrastructure setups. A popular one is the [Node/system metrics exporter][prometheus-node-exporter], 
which sends hardware and OS metrics exposed by \*NIX kernels.

If you’d prefer not to use AWS, the instructions below will still work for machines 
running Ubuntu and Docker. The instructions can also be used if you only have a Docker 
environment set up, though they may require additional steps.

### Step 1: Setup TimescaleDB with the PostgreSQL Prometheus extension

Now we will configure TimescaleDB with the PostgreSQL Prometheus extension, 
known as [pg_prometheus][pg-prometheus-extension]. From the command line, run the following:

```bash
docker run --name pg_prometheus -e POSTGRES_PASSWORD=secret -d -p 5432:5432 timescale/pg_prometheus:latest-pg11  postgres -csynchronous_commit=off
```

This command pulls a new instance of the latest release of TimescaleDB, with 
the [pg_prometheus extension][pg-prometheus-extension] installed and uses 
the `--name` flag to name it `pg_prometheus`. This will automatically create 
tables, hypertables, and schema to store and query metrics from Prometheus in 
an optimized way.

We also use the the `-e` flag to set the password to our TimescaleDB instance 
to be `secret`, but please change it and/or use the relevant secret management 
and password methods you prefer. We also use the default PostgreSQL port of 
`5432`, but you can change it if you have other things running on that port.

>:TIP: If you’re new to TimescaleDB, the [Hello! Timescale tutorial][hello-timescale] will give you the base knowledge you need to proceed.

### Step 2: Set up the Prometheus PostgreSQL adapter

Next, let’s set up the Prometheus PostgreSQL adapter, which acts as a translation 
proxy that Prometheus uses for reading and writing data into PostgreSQL/TimescaleDB. 
The adapter has a dependency on the pg_prometheus PostgreSQL extension, which comes 
pre-installed on the Timescale instance we installed in Step 1.

Here’s how the adapter works: All the metrics that are recorded into Prometheus are 
first written to the local node and then written to TimescaleDB. This means that all 
of your metrics are immediately backed up, so that any disk failure on a Prometheus 
node will be less painful.

```bash
docker run --name prometheus_postgresql_adapter -d -p 9201:9201 timescale/prometheus-postgresql-adapter:latest -pg-host={IP_OF_MACHINE} -pg-password=secret -pg-port=5432
```

This command pulls the latest release of the TimescaleDB 
[remote storage adapter][timescale-remote-storage-adapter] to use PostgreSQL as a 
remote read and write destination for Prometheus metrics. 

Insert the internal IP address of the machine your Timescale container is running on. 
You can obtain this on any Amazon EC2 instance by running the following command:

```bash
curl http://checkip.amazonaws.com
```

>:WARNING: Be sure to use the same password and port number as we did in step 1 for the TimescaleDB instance.

Note that we spin up the adapter on port `9201`, but you can change it if you have other 
things running on that port. 

To check if this is working, login to your database using `psql` with the following 
command:

```bash
docker exec -it pg_prometheus psql -U postgres
```

Check that the extensions include both `pg_prometheus` and `timescaledb` by using the 
`\dx` command in `psql`:

```sql
                                       List of installed extensions
     Name      | Version |   Schema   |                            Description                            
---------------+---------+------------+-------------------------------------------------------------------
 pg_prometheus | 0.2.2   | public     | Prometheus metrics for PostgreSQL
 plpgsql       | 1.0     | pg_catalog | PL/pgSQL procedural language
 timescaledb   | 1.6.0   | public     | Enables scalable inserts and complex queries for time-series data
(3 rows)
```

Also ensure that your tables include `metrics_copy`, `metrics_values`, and `metrics_labels` 
by running the `\dt` command in `psql`:

```bash
             List of relations
 Schema |      Name      | Type  |  Owner   
--------+----------------+-------+----------
 public | metrics_copy   | table | postgres
 public | metrics_labels | table | postgres
 public | metrics_values | table | postgres
(3 rows)

```

### Step 3: Setup Prometheus

Now let’s set up Prometheus. Begin by configuring the `prometheus.yml` file to tell 
Prometheus to use our TimescaleDB instance with `pg_prometheus` as a remote read and 
write for Prometheus metrics. This ensures that all the metrics that are recorded into 
Prometheus are first written to the local node and then written to TimescaleDB. This 
means that all of your metrics are immediately backed up, so that any disk failure on a 
Prometheus node will be less painful.

To do this, add the following lines at the end of your prometheus configuration file, 
assuming you’ve set up the Prometheus PostgreSQL adapter from step 2 at port `9201`:

```yaml
 remote_write:
 - url: "http://{ADAPTER_IP}:9201/write"
remote_read:
 - url: "http://{ADAPTER_IP}:9201/read"
```

If you don’t have a running instance of Prometheus or a `prometheus.yml` configuration 
file, here’s a sample one for the node exporter, running at port `9100`:

```yaml
#prometheus.yml for node exporter job
global:
 scrape_interval:     10s
 evaluation_interval: 10s
scrape_configs:
 - job_name: prometheus
   static_configs:
     - targets: ['node_exporter:9100']
remote_write:
 - url: "http://{ADAPTER_IP}:9201/write"
remote_read:
 - url: "http://{ADAPTER_IP}:9201/read"
```

If you’re monitoring a Timescale Cloud database instance per 
this [tutorial][timescale-cloud-prometheus-endpoint], you can use the following 
sample configuration file, taking care to replace `{TARGET_IP}` with the IP 
address of your Timescale cloud database and `{TARGET_PORT}` with the port that 
the endpoint is running on, as well as your `username` and `password` to authenticate 
your connection to that endpoint.

```yaml
#prometheus.yml for monitoring a timescale cloud instance
global:
 scrape_interval:     10s
 evaluation_interval: 10s
scrape_configs:
 - job_name: prometheus
   scheme: https
   static_configs:
     - targets: ['{TARGET_IP}:{TARGET_PORT}']
   tls_config:
     insecure_skip_verify: true
   basic_auth:
     username: {ENDPOINT_USERNAME}
     password: {ENDPOINT_PASSWORD}
remote_write:
 - url: "http://{ADAPTER_IP}:9201/write"
remote_read:
 - url: "http://{ADAPTER_IP}:9201/read"
```

Now that your Prometheus configuration file has been set, we will use 
FileZilla (or similar tool) to transfer your file to your Amazon EC2 instance. 
Finally, we can run the command below in order to start up Prometheus in a container 
using the configs specified in `prometheus.yml`:

```bash
sudo docker run -p 9090:9090 -v prometheus.yml:/etc/prometheus/prometheus.yml prom/prometheus
```

To check that Prometheus metrics are indeed being stored in TimescaleDB, run the 
following command in `psql` when connected to your TimescaleDB instance and check 
that you see rows in the `metrics_values` table:

```sql
SELECT * FROM metrics_values LIMIT 5;
```

Your output should look like this:

```bash
            time            | value | labels_id 
----------------------------+-------+-----------
 2020-03-17 11:59:57.937+00 |     0 |         1
 2020-03-17 11:59:47.937+00 |     0 |         1
 2020-03-17 11:59:37.937+00 |     0 |         1
 2020-03-17 11:59:27.937+00 |     0 |         1
 2020-03-17 11:59:17.937+00 |     0 |         1
(5 rows)
```

### Step 4: Setup Grafana

Lastly, you will need to set up a Grafana instance. You have two options here. 
First, if you’re using Timescale Cloud, you could setup a Grafana instance from 
the **Create Service** flow. Our [Grafana tutorial][grafana-tutorial] has further 
instructions on how to login to your Grafana instance and how to setup Grafana 
and TimescaleDB.

<img class="main-content__illustration" src="https://assets.iobeam.com/images/docs/screenshots-for-grafana-tutorial/create_service.png" alt="Create a new Grafana service"/>

Second, you could run Grafana in a docker container on your EC2 instance. To do 
this, run:

```bash
sudo docker run -d -p 3000:3000 grafana/grafana
```

If you run open-source Grafana in a Docker container, your default username 
and password are `admin` and `admin`. You can learn more about how to configure 
that [in the Grafana docs][grafana-security-docs] and 
this [StackOverflow post][grafana-stack-overflow].

>:TIP: Alternatively, you can set up [Grafana Cloud][grafana-cloud] and follow the rest of the instructions below. Note that Grafana Cloud is more feature-rich than the open source version of Grafana included with Timescale Cloud, but does require a paid subscription from Grafana.

To complete the setup, you need to connect your TimescaleDB instance as a 
datasource to power dashboards in Grafana. To do this, select new `PostgreSQL` 
data source and fill out the credentials as follows:

- Your host will be the public DNS of your AWS EC2 instance, with the port number 
being the port number of your Timescale instance, which we setup in step 1 as the 
default PostgreSQL port of `5432`. 
- Your database name is `postgres`
- Your user is `postgres` - you can create a new user with more limited permissions 
if you don’t want to use the `postgres` superuser.
- Password would be the password for your Timescale instance, configured in Step 1.
- SSL mode will be `disable`
- Version: 11
- TimescaleDB selected - this tells Grafana you’re using TimescaleDB and will allow 
you to use Timescale specific functions for analysis and creating visualizations.

### Completing setup
Once these four steps are completed, you will have a working instance of Prometheus 
collecting metrics from your cloud infrastructure, a working instance of TimescaleDB 
storing those metrics, with the help of the Prometheus-PostgreSQL Adapter, and a working 
instance of Grafana, with TimescaleDB as a datasource, ready to build visualizations on 
the data.

[The second part][use-timescale-prometheus-grafana] of this tutorial provides instructions 
on how to optimize TimescaleDB for storing and analyzing Prometheus metrics, as well as 
how to create sample dashboards using TimescaleDB and Grafana.

[promscale-blog]: https://blog.timescale.com/blog/promscale-analytical-platform-long-term-store-for-prometheus-combined-sql-promql-postgresql/
[promscale-readme]: https://github.com/timescale/promscale/blob/master/README.md
[design-doc]: https://tsdb.co/prom-design-doc
[promscale-github]: https://github.com/timescale/promscale
[get-prometheus]: https://prometheus.io
[get-grafana]: http://grafana.com
[sample-database]: https://s3.amazonaws.com/docs.iobeam.com/examples/prometheus-grafana/prom_data_csvs.zip
[timescale-cloud]: https://www.timescale.com/products
[timescale-cloud-install]: /getting-started/exploring-cloud
[timescale-cloud-prometheus-endpoint]: /tutorials/tutorial-setting-up-timescale-cloud-endpoint-for-prometheus
[timescaledb-install]: /getting-started/installation
[grafana-cloud]: https://grafana.com/get
[grafana-tutorial]: /tutorials/tutorial-grafana
[grafana-security-docs]: https://grafana.com/docs/grafana/latest/installation/configuration/#security
[grafana-stack-overflow]: https://stackoverflow.com/questions/54039604/what-is-the-default-username-and-password-for-grafana-login-page
[hello-timescale]: /tutorials/tutorial-hello-timescale
[postgres-docs]: https://www.postgresql.org/docs/
[continuous-aggregates]: /tutorials/continuous-aggs-tutorial
[compression]: /using-timescaledb/compression
[data-retention]: /using-timescaledb/data-retention
[setup-prometheus]: /tutorials/setup-timescale-prometheus
[use-timescale-prometheus-grafana]: /tutorials/tutorial-use-timescale-prometheus-grafana
[aws-signup]: https://aws.amazon.com
[ssl-setup-instructions]: https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AWSEC2/latest/UserGuide/AccessingInstancesLinux.html
[ssl-setup-key-instructions]: https://stackoverflow.com/questions/9270734/ssh-permissions-are-too-open-error
[pg-prometheus-extension]: https://github.com/timescale/pg_prometheus
[timescale-remote-storage-adapter]: https://github.com/timescale/prometheus-postgresql-adapter
[docker-ubuntu]: https://www.digitalocean.com/community/tutorials/how-to-install-and-use-docker-on-ubuntu-18-04
[filezilla]: https://www.filezilla.org
[stack-overflow-filezilla]: https://stackoverflow.com/questions/16744863/connect-to-amazon-ec2-file-directory-using-filezilla-and-sftp
[prometheus-exporters]: https://prometheus.io/docs/instrumenting/exporters/
[prometheus-node-exporter]: https://github.com/prometheus/node_exporter
[sample-dashboards]: https://github.com/timescale/examples/tree/master/prometheus-grafana
