introduction/architecture.md, before:

# Architecture & Concepts

## Overview [](overview)

TimescaleDB is implemented as an extension on PostgreSQL, which means that it
runs within an overall PostgreSQL instance.  The extension
model allows the database to take advantage of many of the attributes of
PostgreSQL such as reliability, security, and connectivity to a wide range of
third-party tools.  At the same time, TimescaleDB leverages the high degree of
customization available to extensions by adding hooks deep into PostgreSQL's
query planner, data model, and execution engine.

From a user perspective, TimescaleDB exposes what look like singular tables,
called **hypertables**, that are actually an abstraction or a virtual view of
many individual tables holding the data, called **chunks**.

<img class="main-content__illustration" src="https://assets.iobeam.com/images/docs/illustration-hypertable-chunk.svg" alt="hypertable and chunks"/>

Chunks are created by partitioning the hypertable's data into
one or multiple dimensions: All hypertables are partitioned by a time interval,
and can additionally be partitioned by a key such as device ID, location,
user id, etc. We sometimes refer to this as partitioning across "time and space".

## Terminology [](terminology)

### Hypertables [](hypertables)
The primary point of interaction with your data is a hypertable,
the abstraction of a single continuous table across all space and time
intervals, such that one can query it via standard SQL.

Virtually all user interactions with TimescaleDB are with hypertables. Creating
tables and indexes, altering tables, inserting data, selecting data, etc. can
(and should) all be executed on the hypertable. [[Jump to basic SQL operations][jumpSQL]]

A hypertable is defined by a standard schema with column names and
types, with at least one column specifying a time value, and
one (optional) column specifying an additional partitioning key.

>:TIP: See our [data model][] for a further discussion of various
ways to organize data, depending on your use cases;
the simplest and most natural is in a "wide-table" like many
relational databases.

A single TimescaleDB deployment can store multiple hypertables, each
with different schemas.

Creating a hypertable in TimescaleDB takes two simple SQL
commands: `CREATE TABLE` (with standard SQL syntax),
followed by `SELECT create_hypertable()`.

Indexes on time and the partitioning key are automatically created on hypertables,
although additional indexes can also be created (and TimescaleDB supports the
full range of PostgreSQL index types).

### Chunks [](chunks)

Internally, TimescaleDB automatically splits each
hypertable into **chunks**, with each chunk corresponding to a specific time
interval and a region of the partition key’s space (using hashing).
These partitions are disjoint (non-overlapping), which helps the query planner
to minimize the set of chunks it must touch to resolve a query.

Each chunk is implemented using a standard database table.  (In PostgreSQL
internals, the chunk is actually a "child table" of the "parent" hypertable.)

Chunks are right-sized, ensuring that all of the B-trees for a table’s
indexes can reside in memory during inserts.  This avoids thrashing when
modifying arbitrary locations in those trees.

Further, by avoiding overly large chunks, we can avoid expensive "vacuuming"
operations when removing deleted data according to automated retention policies.
The runtime can perform such operations by simply dropping chunks (internal
tables), rather than deleting individual rows.


## Single Node vs. Clustering [](single-node-vs-clustering)

TimescaleDB performs this extensive partitioning both
on **single-node** deployments as well as **clustered** deployments
(in development).  While
partitioning is traditionally only used for scaling out across multiple
machines, it also allows us to scale up to high write rates (and improved
parallelized queries) even on single machines.

The current open-source release of TimescaleDB only supports single-node
deployments. Of note is that the single-node version of TimescaleDB has been
benchmarked to over 10-billion-row hypertables on commodity machines without
a loss in insert performance.

## Benefits of Single-node Partitioning [](benefits-chunking)

A common problem with scaling database performance on a single machine
is the significant cost/performance trade-off between memory and disk.
Eventually, our entire dataset will not fit in memory, and we’ll need
to write our data and indexes to disk.

Once the data is sufficiently large that we can’t fit all pages of our indexes
(e.g., B-trees) in memory, then updating a random part of the tree can involve
swapping in data from disk.  And databases like PostgreSQL keep a B-tree (or
other data structure) for each table index, in order for values in that
index to be found efficiently. So, the problem compounds as you index more
columns.

But because each of the chunks created by TimescaleDB is itself stored as a
separate database table, all of its indexes are built only across these much
smaller tables rather than a single table representing the entire
dataset. So if we size these chunks properly, we can fit the latest tables
(and their B-trees) completely in memory, and avoid this swap-to-disk problem,
while maintaining support for multiple indexes.

For more on the motivation and design of TimescaleDB, please see our
[technical blog post][chunking].


<!--- Picture of blog post -->

**Next:** Benefits of this architecture design? [TimescaleDB vs. PostgreSQL][TvsP]

[data model]: /introduction/data-model
[chunking]: https://www.timescale.com/blog/time-series-data-why-and-how-to-use-a-relational-database-instead-of-nosql-d0cd6975e87c#2362
[jumpSQL]: /using-timescaledb/hypertables
[TvsP]: /introduction/timescaledb-vs-postgres

Commit message:

1.5 Docs_Complete
All of the docs that need updating for 1.5 relase

introduction/architecture.md, after:

# Architecture & Concepts

## Overview [](overview)

TimescaleDB is implemented as an extension on PostgreSQL, which means that it
runs within an overall PostgreSQL instance.  The extension
model allows the database to take advantage of many of the attributes of
PostgreSQL such as reliability, security, and connectivity to a wide range of
third-party tools.  At the same time, TimescaleDB leverages the high degree of
customization available to extensions by adding hooks deep into PostgreSQL's
query planner, data model, and execution engine.

From a user perspective, TimescaleDB exposes what look like singular tables,
called **hypertables**, that are actually an abstraction or a virtual view of
many individual tables holding the data, called **chunks**.

<img class="main-content__illustration" src="https://assets.iobeam.com/images/docs/illustration-hypertable-chunk.svg" alt="hypertable and chunks"/>

Chunks are created by partitioning the hypertable's data into
one or multiple dimensions: All hypertables are partitioned by a time interval,
and can additionally be partitioned by a key such as device ID, location,
user id, etc. We sometimes refer to this as partitioning across "time and space".

## Terminology [](terminology)

### Hypertables [](hypertables)
The primary point of interaction with your data is a hypertable,
the abstraction of a single continuous table across all space and time
intervals, such that one can query it via standard SQL.

Virtually all user interactions with TimescaleDB are with hypertables. Creating
tables and indexes, altering tables, inserting data, selecting data, etc. can
(and should) all be executed on the hypertable. [[Jump to basic SQL operations][jumpSQL]]

A hypertable is defined by a standard schema with column names and
types, with at least one column specifying a time value, and
one (optional) column specifying an additional partitioning key.

>:TIP: See our [data model][] for a further discussion of various
ways to organize data, depending on your use cases;
the simplest and most natural is in a "wide-table" like many
relational databases.

A single TimescaleDB deployment can store multiple hypertables, each
with different schemas.

Creating a hypertable in TimescaleDB takes two simple SQL
commands: `CREATE TABLE` (with standard SQL syntax),
followed by `SELECT create_hypertable()`.

Indexes on time and the partitioning key are automatically created on hypertables,
although additional indexes can also be created (and TimescaleDB supports the
full range of PostgreSQL index types).

### Chunks [](chunks)

Internally, TimescaleDB automatically splits each
hypertable into **chunks**, with each chunk corresponding to a specific time
interval and a region of the partition key’s space (using hashing).
These partitions are disjoint (non-overlapping), which helps the query planner
to minimize the set of chunks it must touch to resolve a query.

Each chunk is implemented using a standard database table.  (In PostgreSQL
internals, the chunk is actually a "child table" of the "parent" hypertable.)

Chunks are right-sized, ensuring that all of the B-trees for a table’s
indexes can reside in memory during inserts.  This avoids thrashing when
modifying arbitrary locations in those trees.

Further, by avoiding overly large chunks, we can avoid expensive "vacuuming"
operations when removing deleted data according to automated retention policies.
The runtime can perform such operations by simply dropping chunks (internal
tables), rather than deleting individual rows.

## Native Compression [] (Native-Compression)

Compression is powered by TimescaleDB’s built-in job scheduler framework. We 
leverage it to asynchronously convert individual chunks from an uncompressed 
row-based form to a compressed columnar form across a hypertable: Once a chunk 
is old enough, the chunk will be transactionally converted from the row to columnar form.

With native compression, even though a single hypertable in TimescaleDB will 
store data in both row and columnar forms, users don’t need to worry about 
this: they will continue to see a standard row-based schema when querying data. 
This is similar to building a view on the decompressed columnar data.

TimescaleDB enables this capability by both (1) transparently appending data 
stored in the standard row format with decompressed data from the columnar format, 
and (2) transparently decompressing individual columns from selected rows at query time. 

During a query, uncompressed chunks will be processed normally, while data from 
compressed chunks will first be decompressed and converted to a standard row 
format at query time, before being appended or merged into other data. This 
approach is compatible with everything you expect from TimescaleDB, such as 
relational JOINs and analytical queries, as well as aggressive constraint exclusion 
to avoid processing chunks. 

For more information on using compression, please see our Compression Operational 
Overview. For a deep dive on the design motivations and architecture supporting 
compression, read this post.


## Single Node vs. Clustering [](single-node-vs-clustering)

TimescaleDB performs this extensive partitioning both
on **single-node** deployments as well as **clustered** deployments
(in development).  While
partitioning is traditionally only used for scaling out across multiple
machines, it also allows us to scale up to high write rates (and improved
parallelized queries) even on single machines.

The current open-source release of TimescaleDB only supports single-node
deployments. Of note is that the single-node version of TimescaleDB has been
benchmarked to over 10-billion-row hypertables on commodity machines without
a loss in insert performance.

## Benefits of Single-node Partitioning [](benefits-chunking)

A common problem with scaling database performance on a single machine
is the significant cost/performance trade-off between memory and disk.
Eventually, our entire dataset will not fit in memory, and we’ll need
to write our data and indexes to disk.

Once the data is sufficiently large that we can’t fit all pages of our indexes
(e.g., B-trees) in memory, then updating a random part of the tree can involve
swapping in data from disk.  And databases like PostgreSQL keep a B-tree (or
other data structure) for each table index, in order for values in that
index to be found efficiently. So, the problem compounds as you index more
columns.

But because each of the chunks created by TimescaleDB is itself stored as a
separate database table, all of its indexes are built only across these much
smaller tables rather than a single table representing the entire
dataset. So if we size these chunks properly, we can fit the latest tables
(and their B-trees) completely in memory, and avoid this swap-to-disk problem,
while maintaining support for multiple indexes.

For more on the motivation and design of TimescaleDB, please see our
[technical blog post][chunking].


<!--- Picture of blog post -->

**Next:** Benefits of this architecture design? [TimescaleDB vs. PostgreSQL][TvsP]

[data model]: /introduction/data-model
[chunking]: https://www.timescale.com/blog/time-series-data-why-and-how-to-use-a-relational-database-instead-of-nosql-d0cd6975e87c#2362
[jumpSQL]: /using-timescaledb/hypertables
[TvsP]: /introduction/timescaledb-vs-postgres
